# Armed forces `AF`

Armed forces is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Armed forces](AF.md) category.

2,416 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(military|armed (forces?|services?)|regiment(al)?|cadet(s)?|british forces)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 969 | 1.31%
£10k - £100k | 808 | 1.17%
£100k - £250k | 229 | 1.08%
£250k - £500k | 90 | 0.88%
£500k - £1m | 65 | 1.02%
£1m - £10m | 106 | 1.22%
Over £10m | 51 | 2.43%
Total | 2,318 | 1.21%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,924 | 1.13%
oscr | 441 | 1.79%
ccni | 51 | 0.71%
Total | 2,416 | 1.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Salvation Army</strong> [Charity number: [SC009359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009359)]<br>The objects of the Army shall be the advancement of the Christian religion, as promulgated in the religious doctrines set out in Schedule 1 to this Act which are professed, believed and taught by the Army and, pursuant thereto,  the advancement of education,  the relief of poverty. and other charitable objects beneficial to society or the community of mankind as a whole.  | £280,413,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £280,413,000
<strong>Salvation Army Social Work Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037691)]<br>' in promoting the charitable work of the Salvation Army in such one or more of the following ways as the General for the time being of the Salvation Army shall think fit namely : (1) relief of poverty sickness suffering distress incapacity or old age. (2) advancement of education. (3) training in Christian and moral principles. and (4) assistance of those in need of protection' | £252,746,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>THE ROYAL BRITISH LEGION</strong> [Charity number: [219279](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219279)]<br>To safeguard the welfare, interests and memory of those who are serving or who have served in the Armed Forces. One of the largest membership organisations in the UK, recognised as the custodians of Remembrance and also run the annual Poppy Appeal. | £147,061,000
<strong>The HALO Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037870)]<br>A. The relief of poverty, sickness, suffering and distress throughout the world, in particular by the provision of hydrological, engineering and other works and medical aid with particular emphasis on the care and rehabilitation of non-combatant victims in areas where there is human conflict and the provision of assistance in the removal of debris of military hardware which may be a direct threat to non-combatants in hazerdous areas where hostilities have ceased. B. To carry out or conduct or to assist in carrying out or conducting any research into the special problems arising from injuries sustained by noncombatants in hazardous areas and into methods of alleviating suffering arising therefrom and to publish the useful results of any such research. Provided always that in discharging the foregoing objects, it is hereby declared that the Company shall discharge and carry out its objects without recourse to any political stance or viewpoint whether party political or otherwise with the sole aim of relieving such poverty, sickness to distress. | £145,567,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000566)]<br>THE CHARITY'S MAIN ACTIVITIES ARE TO CONTINUE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION THROUGH EVANGELISTIC OUTREACH, PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SALVATION ARMY TERRITORIES, FACILITATING INTERNATIONAL PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, CRISIS RELIEF, WORKING IN COMMUNITIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES AS CLOSE TO THE FAMILY UNIT AND FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING. | £85,972,000
<strong>Royal Voluntary Service</strong> [Charity number: [SC038924](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038924)]<br>The relief of poverty, distress, suffering or need among all sections of the community primarily in the United Kingdom by all charitable means and particularly by providing: i) Assistance largely in kind and facilities for individuals in the community (ii) Assistance in kind to victims of emergencies or disasters (iii) Advice and facilities to relieve the needs of those in hospital, in prison or in the armed services and their families, and Such other purposes for the benefit of the community as shall be exclusively charitable | £42,359,000
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of National Museums Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011130)]<br>Section2 (1) of the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1985 states:  So far as practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall (a) care for, preserve and add to the objects in their collections, (b) secure that the objects are exhibited to and interpreted for the public, (c) secure that the objects are available to persons seeking to inspect them in connection with study or research, (d) generally promote the public's awareness, appreciation and understanding of matters agricultural, archaeological, architectural, artistic, cultural, environmental, historical, industrial, military, scientific and social both by means of the Board's collections and by such other means. including collaboration with other institutions, as they consider appropriate, and (e) provide education, instruction and advice and carry out research. | £39,554,000
<strong>BLIND VETERANS UK</strong> [Charity number: [216227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216227)]<br>We help blind or vision impaired men and women who have served in the UK Armed Forces, and who meet our criteria, by giving the emotional and practical support they require to overcome the challenges they face to discover a life beyond blindness.  All blind veterans should have access to the finest quality of services to help them discover life beyond sight loss. | £37,952,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Blind Veterans UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039411)]<br>3.1 To provide for the medical or surgical treatment, re-education, training in one or more trade or trades, settlement and permanent welfare of.- 3.1.1 Members or former members of the armed forces both men and women blinded from whatever cause whether or not connected in any way with service in the armed forces. 3.1.2 Other persons both men and women not being members or, former members of the armed forces blinded in or as a consequence of any war or warlike operations in which the forces of the Crown may be at any time engaged or any service connected with or subsidiary to such war or warlike operations or by or as a consequence of enemy action in the course of any such war or warlike operations (all such persons being hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiaries') and so that for the purposes of this memorandum the word 'blinded' shall extend to all cases in which the sight has been so impaired that special care and training are required and all cases in which the sight is endangered so long as the cause of the danger continues. 3.2 To provide allowances or other assistance for any wife widow husband widower child or dependant of a Beneficiary who may be in need of assistance or any person who shall have kept house for or nursed or otherwise rendered exceptional service to or have been dependent upon a Beneficiary and may after the death of such Beneficiary be in need of assistance. | £37,952,000
<strong>ARMED FORCES COVENANT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1177627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177627)]<br>The Armed Forces Covenant Fund Trust makes grants to support the Armed Forces Community. The Covenant Fund is delivered by the Armed Forces Covenant Fund Trust. It has £10M a year to fund projects that support the Armed Forces Community.  | £35,748,238
<strong>St John Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC047485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047485)]<br>(a) Advancement of citizenship or community development) encouragement of all that makes for the spiritual and moral strengthening of mankind in accordance with the first great principle of the Order embodied in the Motto 'Pro Fide'.  ii) recommendation to the Grand Prior of the award of Medals, Badges or Certificates of Honour for special services in the cause of humanity especially for saving or attempting to save life at imminent personal risk.  iii) encouragement of research into the history of the Order in Scotland and the formation, by gift or otherwise, of a Library and Museum of objects connected with the history of the Order in Scotland.  iv) maintenance of contact and the development of collaboration with kindred Establishments and Orders of St John.  (b) The Relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage) provision, maintenance encouragement and promotion of all work of humanity and charity for the relief of persons in sickness, distress, suffering or danger, without distinction of race, class or creed and in the extension of the second great principle of the Order embodied in the Motto 'Pro Utilitate Hominum'.  ii) the rendering of aid to the sick, wounded, disabled or suffering and the promotion of such permanent organisation during times of peace as may be at once available in times of civil emergencies or war, including the training and provision of technical reserves for the medical services of the Armed Forces or any Civil Defence Organisations.  (c) The Advancement of health) provision of assistance in the maintenance and development of the St John Eye Hospital in Jerusalem and the clinics and research projects connected therewith. | £1,128,111
<strong>THE ROYAL LEICESTERSHIRE REGIMENT MUSEUM TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [283683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283683)]<br>To record the traditions, and perpetuate the deeds, of the Royal Leicestershire Regiment by collecting together and thereafter displaying and maintaining the collection. | £5,363
<strong>OLD ROYAL NAVAL COLLEGE CHAPEL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1073436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073436)]<br>Support for the maintenance of religious services and music in the Old Royal Naval College Chapel of St Peter & St Paul, Greenwich, London, SE10 9NN. Regular donations to local and international charities. | £66,449
<strong>IX(B) Squadron Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC049562](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049562)]<br>The objects of the Association are exclusively charitable, and are: a) To promote the efficiency of the Royal Air Force by preserving its traditions, fostering esprit-de-corps and comradeship and encouraging personnel to benefit from the experience and lessons of their predecessors, in particular, but not exclusively by maintaining contact with past members of the squadron. b) To educate and inform the general public about the work and history of Bomber Command, Strike Command, Air Command and their subordinate formations, in particular, but not exclusively, by making grants to and supporting any charities, projects or appeals associated with these Commands and their formations and activities, including, but not limited to, The RAF Museum, The Imperial War Museum and The Bomber Command Association. | £27,150
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Fraserburgh Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029133](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029133)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £19,908
<strong>Hawick Ex-Service Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC049205](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049205)]<br>1 The organisation's purposes are  a) the relief of members and ex-members of H.M. Forces who are in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, and  b) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, so as to promote social intercourse, mutual helpfulness, and intellectual improvement.  | £1,975
<strong>GAMBLE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1192179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192179)]<br>Making grants and donations in support of the following areas1  Sport in Sidmouth Devon2 Well being and relief of suffering of the elderly3 Prostate cancer research4 Physical and mental well being of former members of the British armed forces | £36,000
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCES ASSOCIATION - YORK BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [500974](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500974)]<br>The Royal Air Forces Association is incorporated by Royal Charter and its objects are the promotion and welfare of those who are serving or have served in Her Majesty's Royal Air Force and the air forces of the Commonwealth and their dependants by the establishment and maintenance of an organisation for their benefit. | £30,576
