# Veterans `AF104`

Veterans is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Armed forces](AF.md) category.

320 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.16% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(ex-service|armed forces personnel|regimental association|royal british legion|ex-soldiers?|(former|retired) members of the armed (forces|services)|military patients?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 159 | 0.22%
£10k - £100k | 94 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 24 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 3 | 0.03%
£500k - £1m | 8 | 0.12%
£1m - £10m | 14 | 0.16%
Over £10m | 9 | 0.41%
Total | 311 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 184 | 0.11%
oscr | 133 | 0.54%
ccni | 3 | 0.04%
Total | 320 | 0.16%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL BRITISH LEGION</strong> [Charity number: [219279](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219279)]<br>To safeguard the welfare, interests and memory of those who are serving or who have served in the Armed Forces. One of the largest membership organisations in the UK, recognised as the custodians of Remembrance and also run the annual Poppy Appeal. | £160,711,000
<strong>Blind Veterans UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039411)]<br>3.1 To provide for the medical or surgical treatment, re-education, training in one or more trade or trades, settlement and permanent welfare of.- 3.1.1 Members or former members of the armed forces both men and women blinded from whatever cause whether or not connected in any way with service in the armed forces. 3.1.2 Other persons both men and women not being members or, former members of the armed forces blinded in or as a consequence of any war or warlike operations in which the forces of the Crown may be at any time engaged or any service connected with or subsidiary to such war or warlike operations or by or as a consequence of enemy action in the course of any such war or warlike operations (all such persons being hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiaries') and so that for the purposes of this memorandum the word 'blinded' shall extend to all cases in which the sight has been so impaired that special care and training are required and all cases in which the sight is endangered so long as the cause of the danger continues. 3.2 To provide allowances or other assistance for any wife widow husband widower child or dependant of a Beneficiary who may be in need of assistance or any person who shall have kept house for or nursed or otherwise rendered exceptional service to or have been dependent upon a Beneficiary and may after the death of such Beneficiary be in need of assistance. | £29,761,000
<strong>ROYAL STAR & GARTER</strong> [Charity number: [210119](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210119)]<br>Provide residential nursing care and therapy services to disabled ex-Service men and women and their partners or spouses | £25,999,000
<strong>ROYAL BRITISH VETERANS ENTERPRISE LTD.</strong> [Charity number: [210063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210063)]<br>To provide quality care and support to members of the ex-Service community and to help disadvantaged men and women find meaningful and sustained employment | £24,418,000
<strong>HAIG HOUSING TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1125556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125556)]<br>To relieve need, financial hardship,sickness, disability, the effects of wounds, old age, or other like condition by the provision of assistance with housing for members or former members of the Armed Forces of the Crown, and their dependants | £14,535,000
<strong>Haig Housing Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC040058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040058)]<br>The objects of the Charity ('the Objects') are: a. to relieve need , financial hardship, sickness, disability, the effects of wounds, old age or other like condition by the provision of, or assistance with , housing for the following persons in order of priority: (i) members and former members of all ranks and ratings of the Armed Forces of the Crown, whether Regular or Reserve, and their spouses, widows or widowers. (ii) former or separated spouses of members or former members of the Armed Forces of the Crown, whether Regular or Reserve, who have dependent children living with them. (iii) such persons in 3a(ii) above without dependent children b. such charitable purposes for the benefit of beneficiaries of the charity as the trustees decide | £14,500,000
<strong>The Veterans' Foundation </strong> [Charity number: [SC046571](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046571)]<br>3.1 The Charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to the following:  3.1.1 To assist people who are serving or who have served in the British armed forces, including UK merchant seafaring veterans, and their dependants by advancing any lawful charitable purpose at the discretion of the trustees and in particular, but not exclusively, to make grants to other charities who assist serving and former members of the armed forces and their dependants who are in need.  Nothing in the articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and/or section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008.  | £13,718,958
<strong>THE VICTORY (SERVICES) ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [261307](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261307)]<br>Residential Club for Servicemen and Women both serving and ex-service and their families providing accommodation,restaurants,conference,banqueting,exhibition and social events to members and others. | £11,861,419
<strong>ST DAVID'S (1918) CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1204445](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204445)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY (OBJECTS) ARE: 3.1.1 THE RELIEF (FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC) OF THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF AGE, DISABILITY OR ILL HEALTH, PROVIDED THAT IN EXERCISING THEIR DISCRETION IN ADVANCING THE OBJECTS, THE TRUSTEES SHALL SEEK TO GIVE PRIORITY TO FORMER MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES, AND 3.1.2 TO FURTHER SUCH OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PERSONS REFERRED TO IN | £11,207,609
<strong>BRITISH LIMBLESS EX-SERVICE MEN'S ASSOCIATION (BLESMA)</strong> [Charity number: [1084189](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084189)]<br>Blesma supports all serving and ex service men and women who lose limbs or the use of limbs, or one or both eyes in service or as a result of service.  It also supports those ex service men and women who lose limbs not as a result of service or loss of use of limbs as a result of a traumatic incident.  Blesma also supports widows and dependents of the above. | £6,537,390


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Kelso Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC006130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006130)]<br>4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £49,396
<strong>THE PARACHUTE REGIMENTAL ASSOCIATION EASTBOURNE BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1126310](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126310)]<br>To further the interestof the Parachute Regt., and to contiue the Brotherhood of all Airborne Forces | £325
<strong>THE PARACHUTE REGIMENTAL ASSOCIATION SWINDON BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1125552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125552)]<br>The Branch exists to furthery the purpose and aims of the Parachute Regimental Association (Charity Commission number 214015). As part of a national network the branch is expected to follow guidance set by the executive committee of the main Association. The governing documents, guidance and governance notes are available on the Associations website.http://www.army.mod.uk/infantry/regiments/5905 | £600
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Maybole Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030561](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030561)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £2,769
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Forres Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030827)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £2,208
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Kilmarnock Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC021063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021063)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £18,699
<strong>Wings for Warriors</strong> [Charity number: [SC046266](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046266)]<br>TO ASSIST WOUNDED SERVICE PERSONNEL AND VETERANS, BY ADVANCING ANY LAWFUL CHARITABLE PURPOSE AT THE DISCRETION OF THE DIRECTORS AND IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY RAISING AWARENESS OF AND EDUCATE THE GENERAL PUBLIC AND WOUNDED SERVICEMEN THEMSELVES ABOUT THE PROBLEMS FACED BY WOUNDED SERVICEMEN, TO ENCOURAGE SOCIAL INCLUSION AND TO USE PHYSICAL TRAINING AND ENDURANCE ACTIVITIES TO HELP BOOST CONFIDENCE, INSPIRE OTHERS AND THE REHABILITATION OF WOUNDED SERVICEMEN BY PROVIDING TRAINING, EDUCATION AND ANY OTHER ASSISTANCE TO ENABLE FORMER ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL TO FIND EMPLOYMENT | £177,091
<strong>GLAMORGAN BRANCH PARACHUTE REGIMENTAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1193757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193757)]<br>Organisation formed of serving and veterans of the Parachute Regiment & Airborne Forces, promoting contact between past and present members, commemorate those who have given their lives or suffered injury through their service and provide assistance to serving and veterans and their dependents through branch fund raising. | £2,885
<strong>Armed Forces Bikers Veterans Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC043586](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043586)]<br>1. To assist veterans, former serving members of the UK Armed Forces who are in charitable need as a result of injury or other harmful experience suffered during their service, to resettle and rehabilitate into civilian life. 2. To relieve the needs of veterans,  former members of the Armed Forces and their immediate dependents who are in charitable need. | £158,814
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Uist Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030743](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030743)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £1,966
