# Army `AF101`

Army is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Armed forces](AF.md) category.

560 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(army|household division|grenadier|soldiers?|regimental|infantry)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b((salvation|church) army)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 237 | 0.33%
£10k - £100k | 174 | 0.25%
£100k - £250k | 57 | 0.26%
£250k - £500k | 26 | 0.24%
£1m - £10m | 26 | 0.29%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.15%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.28%
Total | 536 | 0.28%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 409 | 0.24%
oscr | 141 | 0.57%
ccni | 10 | 0.14%
Total | 560 | 0.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen & Families Association - Forces Help</strong> [Charity number: [SC038056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038056)]<br>The Object for which SSAFA is established and incorporated is to relieve the need, suffering and distress of the following individuals, who in each case shall satisfy such requirements as the Council may from time to time specify by Regulations: 3.1 members and former members of all ranks of all branches of Our Land Sea and Air Forces (‘Beneficiaries’). 3.2 any person who is dependent on a Beneficiary. 3.3 any person who was dependent on a Beneficiary while that Beneficiary was alive. 3.4 any person on whom a Beneficiary is dependent. and 3.5 any person on whom a deceased Beneficiary was dependent. | £105,826,000
<strong>THE SOLDIERS, SAILORS, AIRMEN AND FAMILIES ASSOCIATION - FORCES HELP</strong> [Charity number: [210760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210760)]<br>RELIEVING THE NEED, SUFFERING AND DISTRESS OF THOSE SERVING OR HAVE SERVED IN THE ARMED FORCES AND THEIR FAMILIES AND DEPENDANTS THROUGH- WELFARE ADVICE AND SUPPORT- HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE/WELFARE SERVICES- HOUSING-SPECIALIST SERVICES TO MEET UNMET NEEDS OF ARMED FORCES COMMUNITY | £105,826,000
<strong>Army Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [1146420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146420)]<br>The Charity's Objectives are to benefit persons who are serving or who have served in the British Army, or their dependants, in any charitable way by the provision of grants, loans, gifts, pensions or otherwise. | £38,740,182
<strong>Army Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039189](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039189)]<br>The object of the charity is to benefit persons who are serving or who have served in the British Army, or their dependants, in any charitable way by the provision of grants, loans, gifts, pensions or othenrvise. | £38,740,182
<strong>COMBAT STRESS</strong> [Charity number: [206002](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206002)]<br>The Charity provides relief of need and advancement of health of veterans and others in the Armed Forces Network, which includes members of the British Army, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary (and regular reserves, volunteer reserves, and sponsored reserves of these bodies), and their families, dependents and support network, who have or have had mental health issues. | £13,370,000
<strong>WAR CHILD</strong> [Charity number: [1071659](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071659)]<br>War Child protects, educates and stands up for the rights of children in war. We work in 14 countries in Africa, Asia, the Middle East, and Latin America. We understand children's needs, respect their rights, and support their recovery; from providing education for displaced children, to reintegrating child soldiers or promoting justice for children in detention to providing livelihood options. | £13,091,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL ARMY MUSEUM</strong> [Charity number: [237902](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-237902)]<br>To interpret and communicate the objects in the Museum's care in ways which inspire, provide enjoyment and provoke questions from the NAM's users.By so doing show the impact of the British Army on the making of Britain from the Middle Ages to the present day and on the role of Britain in the world. | £8,137,000
<strong>ROYAL HOSPITAL CHELSEA APPEAL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1076414](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076414)]<br>The aims of the Charity are to engage in activities for the exclusive benefit of the Royal Hospital Chelsea (RHC) which has provided a fitting home for retired army veterans since 1692. Its main activities are to raise funds for capital investment projects of the RHC and to cover costs not met by the Grant in Aid funding which the RHC receives from the Ministry of Defence. | £7,727,508
<strong>ASCB CHARITABLE FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1123854](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123854)]<br>The ASCB meets its objectives by making an annual grant to the 45 sports associations/unions. Making grants from the Army Sports Lottery (ASL). Making grants to individual sportsmen/women. Making grants for garrison/units for sports facilities/infrastructure. | £7,447,145
<strong>The MacRobert Trust 2019</strong> [Charity number: [SC049745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049745)]<br>(a) the giving of relief and assistance to such persons in need, special consideration being given to persons who or their parents have been members of the Royal Air Force or of the Army, the Royal Navy or the Mercantile marine. (b) the making of grants to public charitable institutions and particularly the Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund and hospitals. (c) the advancement of heritage by holding and maintaining the relics and records of the family of the late Sir Alexander and Lady MacRobert and of the said Dr William Hunter Workman and Fanny Bullock Workman in perpetuity in such manner and way as may seem to the Company from time to time to be most desirable either in Douneside House or in some other suitable building or annex erected by the Company at Douneside or elsewhere. (d) the founding and endowing of scholarships and fellowships in any schools, colleges or education establishments whatsoever, including institutions for the promotion of music and the arts. (e) the making of grants to any person or persons, corporation or institution for the purpose of encouraging the study and practice of education, the study of any branch of human knowledge and in particular the study of psychology and sociology or for encouraging and advancing scientific research or the study and development of music and the arts. (f) the founding, endowing and equipping of schools, colleges, institutions, laboratories, experimental stations, libraries, physical training centres, welfare centres, technical education centres, boys or girls clubs or mission houses. (g) the provision of text books and equipment for any person or persons or corporation engaged in the study of any branch of human knowledge.  (h) the distribution to and among such national and international educational and youth service movements, associations or institutions as the Company may from time to time select, provided that the same are charitable. (i) the creation and subsequent assistance with further funds of such educational or national or international associations or institutions or trusts as may in the opinion of the Company be desirable or required in the circumstances from time to time existing, provided that the same are charitable.    | £6,123,339


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SHROPSHIRE REGIMENTAL MUSEUM</strong> [Charity number: [1210750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210750)]<br>The Charity exists to preserve the historic and contemporary collections of Shropshire's Army Regiments. The Charity operates a museum (in Shrewsbury Castle) and using both physical and online resources, it interprets, understands and displays these collections so that the public can learn what the Shropshire Soldiers gave to shape both their own history and that of our wider society. | 
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Lossiemouth Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029022)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £179
<strong>Army Families Federation</strong> [Charity number: [SC048282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048282)]<br>The objects of the CIO are: (a) The promotion of social inclusion and military efficiency, for the public benefit, by assisting in the prevention of Army families being disadvantaged through military service. and (b) Such other charitable purposes for the general benefit of Army families as the charity trustees from time to time think fit.  | £1,397,192
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Prestonpans Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030241](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030241)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £10,150
<strong>PIPPA'S ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [1212601](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1212601)]<br>A lost and found site for stray dogs and stray cats and some small animals aswell  as a cat rescue for Havering and ThurrockOur passion is stray cats and dogs and have an experienced volunteer team that helps reunite or trap cats and dogs in the area.  We are also a rescue where we rehome the stray cats once ready to be rehomed | 
<strong>BURMA FORCES WELFARE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1107755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107755)]<br>The BFWA was formed to provide financial aid to the Burmese soldiers who fought with the British Armed Forces against the Japanese during the second world war. These fighting men have been forgotten by successive UK governments and are not supported within Burma. The BFWA aim is to ensure the remaining Burmese old soldiers spend the last years of their lives with dignity and honour. | £1,300
<strong>PRESIDENT OF THE REGIMENTAL INSTITUTE 29 REGIMENT ROYAL LOGISTIC CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [1191951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191951)]<br>The PRI exists to generate income in order to subsidise all activity for the good and benefit all members of the Regiment. This ensures team cohesion and the moral component is realised. | £94,262
<strong>Hebrides Mountain Rescue Team</strong> [Charity number: [SC047799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047799)]<br>4 The Purpose of the Organisation is the saving of lives through the provision of a voluntary mountain rescue service in the Scottish Highlands particularly in the Outer Hebrides area for any person or persons suffering accident or who are, or may be, injured, lost, immobilised or otherwise in need of such mountain rescue services anywhere on the mountains, moorlands or any other place where the Team Leader or Depute Team Leaders may direct and to assist in the recovery of the bodies of those persons who have sustained a fatal accident in that area, on the mountains, moorlands or such other place. This will be achieved by:  4.1 Assisting and, where appropriate, organising co-operation amongst the Police, Royal Air Force, Royal Navy, British Army and Coastguard and others, as also other climbers or hill users (not being members of the Organisation). 4.2 Acquiring, maintaining and holding in readiness all premises, equipment and apparatus necessary for providing a mountain rescue service.  4.3 Affording opportunities for members of the Organisation to practise and improve the skills required for carrying out mountain rescues. and 4.4 Furthering the cause of mountain rescue in Scotland and elsewhere in the United Kingdom and promoting safety and safe practice amongst those who take part in recreational or leisure activities as are commonly carried out by persons in mountainous or remote parts of Scotland and elsewhere in the United Kingdom.  | £25,565
<strong>THE RAVC WELFARE & BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1037208](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1037208)]<br>(1) To promote the efficiency of the Royal Army Veterinary Corps by fostering esprit de corps, comradeship, welfare & preserving traditions. (2) Relief of past & present members of the RAVC & their dependents in need by virtue of financial hardship, sickness or effects of old age by grants, loans, gifts, pensions or otherwise. | £50,382
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Longniddry Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029071](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029071)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £4,568
