# RAF `AF103`

RAF is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Armed forces](/data/ukcat/AF) category.

380 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(royal air forces?|r\.?a\.?f\.?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 218 | 0.26%
£10k - £100k | 97 | 0.15%
£100k - £250k | 31 | 0.16%
£250k - £500k | 8 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.07%
£1m - £10m | 9 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.27%
Total | 372 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 347 | 0.21%
oscr | 27 | 0.11%
ccni | 6 | 0.08%
Total | 380 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1081009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081009)]<br>(a) Providing relief and assistance to past and present members of the Royal Air Force and their dependants who are in need as a result of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise.(b) enhancing the morale and well being of serving members of the Royal Air Force(c)Maintaining the RAF war memorial on the Victoria embankment, London. | £25,528,000
<strong>The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC038109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038109)]<br>(a) the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the War Memorial known as the RAF Memorial situated at the Victoria Embankment, London. and b) The relief and assistance by all available means of all or any of thc following classes of beneficiaries who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise, namely:- all persons of all ranks who are or have or shall have been at any time or shall be at any time members of the Royal Air Force, the Royal I Auxiliary Air Force, the Royal Air Force Reserves, the Women's I Royal Air Force or the Air Force or Auxiliary Air Force of any present  or former colony dominion or dependent territory of Great Britain or members of any former organisation the place of which has I substantially been taken by the said organisations or any of them, or I members of any future organisations which hereafter shall substantially take the place of the said organisations or any of them. and  (ii) all persons who shall at any time have been or be widows, widowers, children or other dependants of any of the persons above referred to. | £25,528,000
<strong>COMBAT STRESS</strong> [Charity number: [206002](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206002)]<br>The Charity provides welfare support and clinical treatment for Veterans of the Royal Navy, Army, Royal Air Force, Merchant Navy and other allied services who suffer from mental health problems, including psychological trauma, attributable to or associated with their service in the Armed Forces, Merchant Navy or allied services. | £15,369,000
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCES ASSOCIATION - CORPORATE BODY</strong> [Charity number: [226686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226686)]<br>The provision of welfare support to members of the Royal Air Forces community.  The Association's welfare activities include the operation of three respite care homes, provision of sheltered housing, assistance for individuals in welfare need, support to the serving RAF through contributions to Contact Houses and Internet Cafes. | £12,506,000
<strong>Royal Air Forces Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC037673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037673)]<br>The object for which the Association is established is to promote, through the comradeship engendered by its members, the welfare by charitable means of all serving and former members of Our Air Forces, their spouses and dependants, together with the widows and widowers and dependants of those who died whilst serving or subsequently. | £12,506,000
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1108295](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108295)]<br>The Club is established to carry out the charitable objects of the Company on its behalf in promoting the efficiency of the Royal Air Force by improving the condition of officers holding commissions therein and in other associated Services and by preserving and fostering among them the esprit de corps and traditions of those Services by every suitable means. | £7,149,551
<strong>The Royal Air Force Central Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC044299](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044299)]<br>The object for which the Charity is established is specifically restricted to the general benefit of members or former members of the Royal Air Force and their dependants in such charitable ways as the Trustees think fit.  | £4,166,890
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE CENTRAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1152560](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152560)]<br>PROVIDE CHARITABLE SUPPORT TO THE SERVING RAF COMMUNITY WORLDWIDE, SUPPORTING CAPITAL PROJECTS, COMMUNITY AND WELFARE SUPPORT FACILITIES AND ENCOURAGING THE DEVELOPMENT OF INDIVIDUALS THROUGH SPORT TO FACILIATE AN ENCHANCED SENSE OF BELONGING, MOTIVATION, MORALE AND COMMUNITY SPIRIT. | £4,166,890
<strong>The MacRobert Trust 2019</strong> [Charity number: [SC049745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049745)]<br>(a) the giving of relief and assistance to such persons in need, special consideration being given to persons who or their parents have been members of the Royal Air Force or of the Army, the Royal Navy or the Mercantile marine. (b) the making of grants to public charitable institutions and particularly the Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund and hospitals. (c) the advancement of heritage by holding and maintaining the relics and records of the family of the late Sir Alexander and Lady MacRobert and of the said Dr William Hunter Workman and Fanny Bullock Workman in perpetuity in such manner and way as may seem to the Company from time to time to be most desirable either in Douneside House or in some other suitable building or annex erected by the Company at Douneside or elsewhere. (d) the founding and endowing of scholarships and fellowships in any schools, colleges or education establishments whatsoever, including institutions for the promotion of music and the arts. (e) the making of grants to any person or persons, corporation or institution for the purpose of encouraging the study and practice of education, the study of any branch of human knowledge and in particular the study of psychology and sociology or for encouraging and advancing scientific research or the study and development of music and the arts. (f) the founding, endowing and equipping of schools, colleges, institutions, laboratories, experimental stations, libraries, physical training centres, welfare centres, technical education centres, boys or girls clubs or mission houses. (g) the provision of text books and equipment for any person or persons or corporation engaged in the study of any branch of human knowledge.  (h) the distribution to and among such national and international educational and youth service movements, associations or institutions as the Company may from time to time select, provided that the same are charitable. (i) the creation and subsequent assistance with further funds of such educational or national or international associations or institutions or trusts as may in the opinion of the Company be desirable or required in the circumstances from time to time existing, provided that the same are charitable.    | £3,021,880
<strong>Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund Housing Trust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC038218](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038218)]<br>3. The objects for which the Company is established are:  (A) ' To support and assist, The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund. (hereinafter called ''the fund')  in its charitable work and in particular to carry  into effect the charitable objects of the Fund by  purchasing owning taking on lease and otherwise , providing housing accommodation for members or former members of the Royal Air Force, or the widows or other dependents ot such members or former members who are in need particularly of accommodation whether through illness disablement or otherwise. . b To purchase take on lease or hire or otherwise -  acquire any real or personal property for the  purposes aforesaid and to repair maintain decorate and improve the same and to rnake such payments in connection therewith as the Directors shall from time to time decide. c To sell lease mortgage charge or turn to account the property of the Company in such manner as the Directors shall think fit Provided that the proceeds of any such sale lease mortgage charge or turning to account shall be applied subject to Clause 4 hereof after payment of any loans or other liabilities of the Company and all professional or administration costs and charges in or towards the objects mentioned in Paragraphs (A) and (B) of this clause. To borrow or raise money for the purposes of the Company on such terms and on such security as may be thought fit. e To invest the moneys of the Company not , immediately required for its purposes in or  upon such investments, securities or property as may be thought fit, subject nevertheless to ! such conditions (if any) and such consents (if  any) as may for the time being be imposed or  required by law and subject also as hereinafter,  provided. To do all such other things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of the above objects or any of them. | £2,376,205


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>RAF Waddington Junior Ranks Welfare Fund</strong> [Charity number: [1134805](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134805)]<br>The Charity is ran for the benefit of Serving Personnel at RAF Waddington. | £32,039
<strong>SERGEANTS' MESS RAF BENSON</strong> [Charity number: [1129703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129703)]<br>The promotion of efficiency of the armed forces of the Crown by the provision and support of facilities and activities for the efficiency and well-being of Service Personnel | £148,964
<strong>Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund Housing Trust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC038218](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038218)]<br>3. The objects for which the Company is established are:  (A) ' To support and assist, The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund. (hereinafter called ''the fund')  in its charitable work and in particular to carry  into effect the charitable objects of the Fund by  purchasing owning taking on lease and otherwise , providing housing accommodation for members or former members of the Royal Air Force, or the widows or other dependents ot such members or former members who are in need particularly of accommodation whether through illness disablement or otherwise. . b To purchase take on lease or hire or otherwise -  acquire any real or personal property for the  purposes aforesaid and to repair maintain decorate and improve the same and to rnake such payments in connection therewith as the Directors shall from time to time decide. c To sell lease mortgage charge or turn to account the property of the Company in such manner as the Directors shall think fit Provided that the proceeds of any such sale lease mortgage charge or turning to account shall be applied subject to Clause 4 hereof after payment of any loans or other liabilities of the Company and all professional or administration costs and charges in or towards the objects mentioned in Paragraphs (A) and (B) of this clause. To borrow or raise money for the purposes of the Company on such terms and on such security as may be thought fit. e To invest the moneys of the Company not , immediately required for its purposes in or  upon such investments, securities or property as may be thought fit, subject nevertheless to ! such conditions (if any) and such consents (if  any) as may for the time being be imposed or  required by law and subject also as hereinafter,  provided. To do all such other things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of the above objects or any of them. | £2,376,205
<strong>SERGEANTS' MESS RAF SHAWBURY</strong> [Charity number: [1157057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1157057)]<br>The Sergeants Mess assists in providing the Royal Air Force personnel with the necessary skills to carry out their contribution to the Defence of the UK. The Mess is established for the benefit of Service Personnel to promote military efficiency which underpins esprit de corps and team working to face challenges and dangers associated with military service. | £55,481
<strong>ROYAL AIR FORCES ASSOCIATION - HIGH WYCOMBE BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [231529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-231529)]<br>To promote, through the comradeship engendered by its members, the welfare by charitable means of all serving and former members of our air forces, their spouces and dependants, together with the widows and widowers and dependents of those died while serving or subsequently | £3,533
<strong>Royal Air Forces Association Edinburgh, Lothian & Borders Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC009110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009110)]<br>The object for which the Association is established is to promote, through the comradeship engendered by its members, the welfare by charitable means of all serving and former members of Our Air Forces, their spouses and dependants, together with the widows and widowers and dependants of those who died whilst serving or subsequently. | £8,222
<strong>ROYAL AIR FORCES ASSOCIATION BEXLEYHEATH AND DISTRICT BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1071077](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071077)]<br>Looking after interest and welfare of serving and retired members of the Royal Air Forces. | £90
<strong>DE HAVILLAND AIRCRAFT MUSEUM TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [286794](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286794)]<br>A) The restoration, maintenance and preservation of the prototype dh98 Mosquito W4050 and other de Havilland aircraft and artifacts of historical interest for the instruction and edification of the public. B) To apply a proportion of the excess of income over expenditure in any year by way of grants to the RAF Benevolent Fund or other charity or charities as the directors shall determine. | £365,417
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE DISABLED HOLIDAY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [286019](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286019)]<br>The aim of the Trust, the first of its kind, is to make it possible for both serving and ex-Royal Air Force personnel and their dependants with a severe disability to take holidays in the UK and abroad on equal terms with able bodied people. An important part of this aim is to enable families to holiday together in a property integrated with the able-bodied holiday community. | £2,024
<strong>RAF ODIHAM SWIMMING POOL</strong> [Charity number: [1171063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171063)]<br>RAF Odiham Swimming Pool. | £119,643
