# Navy `AF102`

Navy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Armed forces](AF.md) category.

506 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.25% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((royal|merchant) (navy|naval)|royal marines?|HMS)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 216 | 0.30%
£10k - £100k | 201 | 0.29%
£100k - £250k | 34 | 0.15%
£250k - £500k | 18 | 0.17%
£1m - £10m | 15 | 0.17%
£500k - £1m | 12 | 0.18%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.23%
Total | 501 | 0.26%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 382 | 0.22%
oscr | 118 | 0.48%
ccni | 6 | 0.08%
Total | 506 | 0.25%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE ROYAL NAVY</strong> [Charity number: [1126283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126283)]<br>To become the world's leading naval museum underpinned by the spirit of enterprise and adventure which has always been the hallmark of the Royal Navy. To make accessible to all the story of the Royal Navy and its people from earliest times to the present by collecting, preserving and interpreting artefacts, photographs, documents, manuscripts and oral history testimony. | £19,187,000
<strong>NMRN OPERATIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1169061](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169061)]<br>To support the work of the National Museum of the Royal Navy | £18,426,275
<strong>The Royal Navy and Royal Marines Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC041898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041898)]<br>3.1 the relief in need, hardship or distress of Beneficiaries and their Families and Dependants. 3.2 the assistance with, provision of or contribution to the education and training of children of Beneficiaries. and 3.3 the promotion of efficiency of the Naval Service and the Auxiliaries by way of the enhancement of morale, the improvement of recruitment and retention, and the further relief and encouragement, of men and women who are serving in the Naval Service or the Auxiliaries. | £13,748,345
<strong>THE ROYAL NAVY AND ROYAL MARINES CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1117794](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117794)]<br>To raise and deliver resources, working with others, to provide the best support to serving and former members of the Naval Service and their families. | £13,748,345
<strong>COMBAT STRESS</strong> [Charity number: [206002](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206002)]<br>The Charity provides relief of need and advancement of health of veterans and others in the Armed Forces Network, which includes members of the British Army, Royal Navy, Royal Air Force and the Royal Fleet Auxiliary (and regular reserves, volunteer reserves, and sponsored reserves of these bodies), and their families, dependents and support network, who have or have had mental health issues. | £13,370,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NAVAL BENEVOLENT TRUST (GRAND FLEET AND KINDRED FUNDS)</strong> [Charity number: [206243](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206243)]<br>The RNBT gives help, in cases of need, to those who are serving or have served as ratings in the Royal Navy or as other ranks in the Royal Marines, and their dependants - The RNBT Family.  We give financial support to individuals and provide care for older people. | £9,292,616
<strong>The Royal Naval Benevolent Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC052748](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052748)]<br>The Royal Naval Benevolent Trust  gives help, in cases of need, to serving and former Royal Naval ratings and Royal Marines other ranks. We also help their partners, children and some others connected with them. | £9,292,616
<strong>CHINA FLEET TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1135918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135918)]<br>The provision of recreation and leisure activities to the specified class of beneficiaries; all serving Officers and Ratings of the Royal Navy; all RN/RM Reserve Forces; all Royal Fleet Auxiliary personnel and their immediate families.The Directors shall also select additional beneficiary classes from time to time providing they shall give priority first to serving the needs of those specified. | £6,750,470
<strong>THE GREENWICH FOUNDATION FOR THE OLD ROYAL NAVAL COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [1062519](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062519)]<br>To preserve for the benefit of the nation the Old Royal Naval College site, buildings and monuments as being of historical, architectural and artistic importance, to allow the general public reasonable access to the site, and to educate the public thereon | £6,482,062
<strong>Royal Marines Association - The Royal Marines Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC048185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048185)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are 3.1.1 To maintain and increase the efficiency and esprit de corps of the Royal Marines including the Royal Marines Reserve. 3.1.2 To assist or benefit persons serving in or who have served in the Royal Marines or the Royal Marines Reserve or of such dependents, wives, widows, issue or immediate close family of such persons as may for the time being be in need of charitable assistance or benefit. 3.1.3 To support the Royal Marines including the Royal Marines Reserve, the Marine Cadet Section of the Sea Cadet Corps, the Marine Cadet Section of the Combined Cadet Force and the Royal Marines Volunteer Cadet Corps by any other charitable means as the Trustees shall from time to time permit. | £6,170,786


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Coldstream Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC028988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028988)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £10,448
<strong>WARRIOR PRESERVATION TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [256756](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-256756)]<br>The preservation of HMS Warrior 1860, a major UK national maritime asset. The presentation of the ship to the public for their benefit and education. | £13,063
<strong>SCUNTHORPE UNIT 298 OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [521983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521983)]<br>We are a Youth Education Charity. we support young people aged 10-18 with life skills, education, leisure, activities, fun and Adventure. We also support BTech National Diplomas, RYA, British Rowing, British Canoeing and many more. We are a Uniformed organisation following the styles and ideologies of the Royal Navy teaching Teamwork, Leadership, Personal Care, First Aid and so much more | £117,536
<strong>MAIDENHEAD UNIT OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [300179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-300179)]<br>Provide training to young people in the Maidenhead, Taplow & Burnham area based on the principals of the Royal Navy. Subjects covered include rowing, canoeing, cookery, mechanical & electrical engineering, communications, various sports and many competitions. | 
<strong>THE ROYAL NAVAL ASSOCIATION LISKEARD BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1068408](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068408)]<br>To provide a meeting place and activities for ex Royal Naval and Royal Fleet Auxiliary  personnel in particular and ex Service personnel in general.  The Branch assists in General Charitable Activities; helping other Charitable Organisations and making grants to individuals, organisations and Charities, Service oriented Charities and those for disabled persons are of particular interest. | £9,495
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Crail Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC028417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028417)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £4,156
<strong>ROYAL MERCHANT NAVY EDUCATION FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1153323](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153323)]<br>The Foundation's object is to contribute to the maintenance and education of its beneficiaries, called Foundationers, to enable them to take up suitable careers: in short, education for employment. | £563,395
<strong>BRIDLINGTON UNIT (NO 646) OF THE SEA CADET CORPS (TS PATHFINDER)</strong> [Charity number: [1187398](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187398)]<br>A voluntary youth organisation for boys and girls aged 10 - 18 years. It provides a range of activities, including sport, sailing and boat work, within a caring discipline based on the high standards of the Royal Navy, to which the young people can develop in self confidence, leadership, and  a responsibility to work alone or within a team. | £17,570
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Inverurie & District Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029642](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029642)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £17,892
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Forres Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030827)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £2,208
