# Dogs `AN102`

Dogs is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Animals](AN.md) category.

947 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.47% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(dogs?|canines?|kennels?|Rhodesian Ridgeback)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 222 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 398 | 0.57%
£100k - £250k | 136 | 0.61%
£250k - £500k | 61 | 0.55%
£500k - £1m | 30 | 0.43%
£1m - £10m | 30 | 0.33%
Over £10m | 9 | 0.40%
Total | 886 | 0.46%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 823 | 0.48%
oscr | 97 | 0.39%
ccni | 27 | 0.39%
Total | 947 | 0.47%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Guide Dogs For The Blind Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC038979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038979)]<br>The Objects for which the Association is established are to promote the health, equality and independence of blind and partially sighted people by: 1. Providing guide dogs for blind and partially sighted people.. 2. Training and educating blind and partially sighted people in the use of such guide dogs. 3. The relief, prevention and cure of vision impairment.  4. Providing such services, facilities and activities for the benefit of blind and partially sighted people as the Association shall from time to time deem fit | £156,400,000
<strong>THE GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [209617](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209617)]<br>The Association provides guide dogs, mobility and other rehabilitation services to people who are blind and partially sighted. In accordance with its constitution, it provides "additional services and facilities for the relief of blind persons as the Association shall from time to time deem fit". | £156,400,000
<strong>Dogs Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC053144](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053144)]<br>The Charity's objects (the objects) are (and for the avoidance of doubt whether within the United Kingdom or elsewhere throughout the World) to protect dogs and other animals in the Directors' discretion from maltreatment, cruelty and suffering. | £143,068,000
<strong>DOGS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1167663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167663)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accommodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms. Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices. Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £143,067,945
<strong>BATTERSEA DOGS' AND CATS' HOME</strong> [Charity number: [206394](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206394)]<br>We aim never to turn away a dog or cat in need of help. We reunite lost dogs and cats with their owners; when we cannot do this, we care for them until new homes can be found for them; and we educate the public about responsible pet ownership. | £70,340,000
<strong>DOGS TRUST LEGACY</strong> [Charity number: [227523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227523)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accomodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms.Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices.Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £67,323,001
<strong>Dogs Trust Legacy</strong> [Charity number: [SC037843](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037843)]<br>The objects of DOGS TRUST shall be (and for the avoidance of doubt whether within the United Kingdom or elsewhere throughout the World) to protect dogs and such other animals in the Trustee's discretion from maltreatment, cruelty, suffering   | £67,323,000
<strong>Hearing Dogs for Deaf People</strong> [Charity number: [SC040486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040486)]<br>The Association's objects are the promotion of health and the relief of sickness in particular by training. providing and supporting animal assisted intervention in the relief of human deafness, disability, sickness, suffering or distress, (sufferers from such conditions herein after called •deaf or disabled people') collaborating with other' charities where appropriate and in pursuance of the foregoing charitable objects but not otherwise  | £16,410,564
<strong>HEARING DOGS FOR DEAF PEOPLE</strong> [Charity number: [293358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293358)]<br>The charity's objects are the promotion of health and the relief of sickness in particular by training, providing and supporting animal assisted intervention in the relief of human deafness, disability, sickness, suffering or distress, collaborating with other charities where appropriate. | £16,410,564
<strong>ANIMALS ASIA FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1086903](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086903)]<br>Animals Asia is devoted to ending the barbaric practice of bear bile farming and improving the welfare of animals in China and Vietnam. We promote compassion and respect for all animals and work to bring about long-term change.  Particular emphasis is  on ending bear bile farming, ending the trade in dogs and cats for meat and improving the welfare of captive animals in zoos and safari parks. | £6,017,178


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Miss Mary Dunlop Murdoch Andrew Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC021977](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021977)]<br>The Trustees shall apply the income and capital of the Trust Funds for charitable purposes by the payment at such times as they may decide of grants to such charities as they may select, including for consideration but without prejudice to the generality, the British Red cross. the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund. The Army Benevolent Fund. the King George's Fund for Sailors. the Earl Haig Fund. the Royal National Institute for the Blind. the Edinburgh and East of Scotland Society for the Deaf. the Royal Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The Marie Curie Cancer Care. the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Animals. Age Concern Scotland. the National Trust for Scotland. Gullane Parish Church. the Salvation Army. the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. Guide Dogs for the Blind. the University of Glasgow Trust and such other charitable bodies as provide (a) for the maintenance and expansion of Christian Churches and organisations. (b) for the maintenance, relief, medical treatment or care of the sick, the blind, the deaf, the dumb, the aged or the poor. (c) for education or training, (d) for the care and upbringing of the young. and (e) for the preservation of places and buildings of historic or artistic interest: And I provide that the Trustees shall have full and unfettered discretion in the selection of the charitable purposes to which the Trust Funds shall be applied from time to time and that neither the naming of a charity as aforesaid nor the selection of a charity on a former occasion shall be taken as entitling a charity to receive a payment from the Trustees. | £39,080
<strong>LOTUS STRAY RESCUE</strong> [Charity number: [1177717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177717)]<br> For the benefit of the public to relieve the suffering of stray dogs and cats in need of care and attention in England and Europe in particular by: A) providing homes, care and treatmentB) engaging in spay & neuter campaigns to reduce the stray populationTo promote humane behaviour towards animals by providing care and treatment and to educate the public in matters pertaining to prevent | £34,324
<strong>Ardoyne Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI100243](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100243)]<br>The association provides a free, private and confidential service for the benefit of the Inhabitants of the Ardoyne Area and district area of Belfast and its environs; our main areas of work are around Social and Private Housing, Social Security Benefits including, Disability& Carers, Housing Benefit, Employment and Support Allowance, Income Support, JSA, Social Fund, Pensions, Pension Credit etc... We also provide information and advice on Consumer issues, Employment, Health, and Debt and have an excellent referral system. Over 3000 people have passed through our offices in the last year, with 1653 interviewed, 493 collected forms, 648 forms completed, 16 home visits and income generated for these people in 2013 in the sum of £1.9million, by way of entitlement to benefits. We have had 14 presentations sessions on the pending Welfare Reform Bill and Benefit changes, to date 1275 people have attended these sessions. In the area of housing, environmental and community safety we have reclaimed wasteland for gardens, ran campaigns against litter dumping, graffiti, dog fouling. We were responsible for turning alley ways and entries from rubbish pits into hanging basket walk ways by promoting and providing alleygates, which reduced anti-social behaviour and increased the security of over 1697 homes. Our re-imaging murals projects involved 157 community meetings, moving people mind sets from political/paramilitary to cultural to promote community harmony through inter-generational and cross community activities and so leading to healthier living. We have instigated an education for all policy within the community by setting up and running an educational task group, to look at setting up three new schools and adult educational programme. | £347,998
<strong>7th HEAVEN ANIMAL RESCUE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [NI101696](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101696)]<br>7th Heaven Animal Rescue Trust: - provides a safe environment for abandoned, unwanted and abused small domestic animals, whilst operating a No Kill policy. - provides care and treatment, as necessary - pays for neutering of our rescued animals, if necessary - attempts to re-home the animals, or care for them indefinitely, if they cannot be rehomed - provides free neutering, kennels and food, if required, for feral cats - runs a pet food bank scheme to provide free pet food for a limited period to people in financial difficulty. This will enable them to hold on to their pet, negating any possible distress of giving up their animal. - operates a free Canine Matchmaking Service to rehome dogs directly from home to home therefore preventing the animal undue stress, whilst also empowering the owner by giving them the choice to decide its new owner. We will advertise the animal to be homed, sift enquiries from potential owners and do a home check, if requested, whilst providing advice and support throughout the process. | £4,655
<strong>K9 CRUSADERS</strong> [Charity number: [1138278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138278)]<br>Rescue, rehabilitate and rehome dogs in Cornwall.  Provide dog related help, support and advice. Offer volunteer opportunities to members of the local community,  including adults with additional needs and people who need rehabilitation into the community. | £170,265
<strong>UK K9 SEARCH & RECOVERY</strong> [Charity number: [1217355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1217355)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:TO PROTECT AND PRESERVE LIFE AND TO RELIEVE SUFFERING FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND THE REPUBLIC OF IRELAND BY PROVIDING SPECIALIST SEARCH AND RECOVERY SERVICES, INCLUDING THE USE OF TRAINED DOGS AND TECHNICAL EQUIPMENT ON LAND AND WATER, IN SUPPORT OF EMERGENCY SERVICES, HUMANITARIAN EFFORTS, AND MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AFFECTED BY MISSING PERSON INCIDENTS AND DISASTER SITUATIONS. | 
<strong>HOMEWARD HOUNDZ RESCUE & REHOME</strong> [Charity number: [1216827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1216827)]<br>1. FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC, TO RELIEVE THE SUFFERING OF DOGS IN NEED OF CARE AND ATTENTION THROUGHOUT ENGLAND AND WALES BY PROVIDING APPROPRIATE CARE, PROTECTION, TREATMENT AND SECURITY FOR SUCH ANIMALS AND BY FINDING NEW AND SUITABLE HOMES FOR SUCH ANIMALS, AND TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC IN MATTERS PERTAINING TO ANIMAL WELFARE IN GENERAL AND THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY AND SUFFERING AMONG DOGS. | 
<strong>CARLTON VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [523536](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523536)]<br>Dancing for all ages and standards, exercise & self defence classes, youth group, dog training, art classes, baby group, book swap and natter group, WI, private hire and fund raising. | £23,962
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS BRIGHTON & THE HEART OF SUSSEX BRANCH CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1212867](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1212867)]<br>The charity is responsible for the RSPCA Brighton Animal Shelter, which provides care, veterinary treatment and rehoming for unwanted domestic animals, including reptiles. The Shelter has a first aid and holding unit for injured wildlife. Over 3000 animals are cared for at the Shelter each year. The charity provides subsidised neutering for cats, dogs and rabbits, for people on low incomes. | 
<strong>OTTERBOURNE VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [301911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-301911)]<br>The charity provides three halls for the local community to use for various functions within the village, including W.I. flower club, pilates, dancing classes, dancing, stroke clubs, dog training & drama group. The charity produces pantomimes, variety shows and band concerts to raise funds. | £112,628
