# Donkeys `AN103`

Donkeys is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Animals](AN.md) category.

59 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.03% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(donkey|donkeys|mule(s)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 9 | 0.01%
£10k - £100k | 21 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 5 | 0.02%
£250k - £500k | 8 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 1 | 0.01%
£1m - £10m | 6 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.18%
Total | 54 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 54 | 0.03%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 5 | 0.02%
Total | 59 | 0.03%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE DONKEY SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [264818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-264818)]<br>TO PROVIDE RESCUE HOMES AND TREATMENT FOR DONKEYS, MULES AND OTHER SUCH ANIMALS, AND TO PREVENT CRUELTY TO SUCH ANIMALS THROUGH PROMOTING HUMANE BEHAVIOUR TOWARDS THEM.ENHANCING PEOPLE'S LIVES THROUGH WORKING WITH DONKEYS AND MULES AND BRINGING ENJOYMENT INTO THE LIVES OF CHILDREN AND ADULTS WITH ADDITIONAL NEEDS. | £59,600,125
<strong>THE BROOKE HOSPITAL FOR ANIMALS</strong> [Charity number: [1085760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085760)]<br>Since it was founded in 1934, the Brooke has helped to relieve the suffering of  millions of working horses, donkeys and mules and improved the livelihoods of the countless people who depend upon them. The Brooke provides veterinary services in some of the world's poorest communities, treating animals and training animal-owners in countries including Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Kenya and Pakistan. | £26,157,855
<strong>Redwings Horse Sanctuary</strong> [Charity number: [SC045070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045070)]<br>3.1 For the benefit of the public to relieve the suffering of horses, ponies, donkeys and mules which have suffered from maltreatment, neglect or poor circumstances. 3.2 To advance the education of the public in matters pertaining to the welfare of horses, ponies, donkeys and mules in general and the prevention of cruelty and suffering among such animals. | £14,836,275
<strong>REDWINGS HORSE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1068911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068911)]<br>Redwings operates sanctuaries and rehoming across England, Scotland and Wales. Our primary purpose is to provide and promote the welfare, protection and care of horses, ponies donkeys and mules that have suffered from maltreatment, neglect or poor circumstances, through rescue, rehabilitation and sanctuary care, and by educating people | £14,836,275
<strong>M J CAMP CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1085654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085654)]<br>Making grants to charitable organisations to promote places and objects of natural beauty in the UK and in Hayling Island in particular, the restoration of canals and other inland waterways in the UK, the relieving of suffering of horses, ponies or donkeys, the promotion of historic vehicles and in particular steam trains and the establishment of community transport schemes in the UK. | £2,419,218
<strong>ISLE OF WIGHT DONKEY SANCTUARY CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1159886](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159886)]<br>The provide healthcare and welfare for abandoned, rescued and homeless donkeys.To educate children about the heritage and roles of donkeys.To support other charities through association with our donkeys.To provide the public with an opportunity to visit, learn and appreciate the animals in a natural, visitor-friendly environment. | £2,100,681
<strong>BLEAKHOLT ANIMAL SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1110503](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110503)]<br>The principal aim of the charity is the rescue, rehabilitation and re-homingh (except for our equines and farm animals) of stray and unwanted animals. The Charity provides care and shelter for stray, neglected and unwanted animals including dogs, cats, rabbits, guinea pigs, ferrets, horses, donkeys, goats, sheep, cows and pigs. | £1,830,043
<strong>SAFE HAVEN FOR DONKEYS IN THE HOLY LAND</strong> [Charity number: [1083468](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083468)]<br>The provision of care and protection of donkeys and mules. | £1,515,116
<strong>THE FLICKA FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1153858](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153858)]<br>THE RESCUE & REHABILITATION OF DONKEYS, HORSES & OTHER ANIMALS FROM CRUELTY, NEGLECT OR ABANDONMENT OR ELDERLY ANIMALS THAT REQUIRE VETERINARY CARE AND ATTENTION. FACILITATING UNDER PRIVILEGED, DISABLED & SICK CHILDREN TO INTERACT WITH RESCUE DONKEYS & HORSES, FACILITATING MANY GROUPS INCLUDING THE ELDERLY, HOMES, CLUBS & SCHOOLS, HEART, STROKE, CANCER VICTIMS FOR REHABILITATION THERAPY. | £1,402,754
<strong>HORSEWORLD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1121920](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121920)]<br>Ensuring quality of life for horses ponies & donkeys by providing a healthy & secure future. Operating an effective rescue rehabilitation & rehoming programme actively promoting & encouranging responsible equine ownership. Supporting & working closely with local communities & organisations. Educating children with emotional behavioural & learning difficulties through our Discovery Programme. | £1,166,654


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>REMUS MEMORIAL HORSE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1134951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134951)]<br>THE SANCTUARY AIMS TO:-PROVIDE LIFETIME HELP, CARE AND ATTENTION FOR HORSES, PONIES, DONKEYS AND OTHER LARGE ANIMALS.ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN THE PROPER CARE AND TREATMENT OF EQUINES.ADVISE OWNERS ON THE CARE OF THEIR ANIMALS.HELP TO FIGHT THE EVER INCREASING RISE IN CRUELTY TO ANIMALS AND CONTINUE TO WORK WITH OTHER SIMILAR MINDED ORGANISATIONS. | £465,831
<strong>Horse Rescue Scotland </strong> [Charity number: [SC044484](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044484)]<br>4.1 to advance. and provide for the veterinary care, comfort and adequate welfare and/or wellbeing of horses, ponies, donkeys and other equine breeds in situ or in places of sanctuary. 4.2 to advance. and promote knowledge, education and interest in the welfare and/or wellbeing of the above. 4.3 to promote. and advance best practice, skills and knowledge amongst owners, managers, carers of equines compatible with the safety and wellbeing, care and welfare of equine breeds. 4.4 to relieve the suffering and distress, illness and discomfort of horses, ponies, donkeys and other equine breeds  | £3,231
<strong>ISLE OF WIGHT DONKEY SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1001061](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001061)]<br>To provide health, care and welfare for abandoned, rescued and homeless donkeys. To educate children about the heritage and roles of donkeys. To support other charities through association with donkeys. To provide the public with an opportunity to visit, learn and appreciate the animals in a natural, visitor friendly environment. | 
<strong>VETERINARIANS FOR ANIMAL WELFARE ZIMBABWE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1154915](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154915)]<br>We fund and support various projects across Zimbabwe, largely in the care and welfare of domestic animals, including cattle, donkeys, goats, etc.   We also help in the funding of a clinic at Victoria Falls where the full-time vet supplies veterinary care and welfare training to local residents both at the clinic and in their villages.  This is invaluable as there is otherwise no care available. | £5,916
<strong>DONKEY BREED SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [292268](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292268)]<br>To preserve and improve the standard of donkeys in general by breeding and to encourage the use, appreciation, wellbeing and protection of the donkey.To promote public education in the various arts and sciences in connection with the donkey and the use, appreciation, care and management thereof. | £60,258
<strong>Farmersfield Rest-Home For Elderly Donkeys</strong> [Charity number: [SC045033](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045033)]<br>To advance animal welfare by providing permanent accommodation for elderly donkeys over the age of 20 with the aim of transforming the quality of life of aged donkeys through a compassionate approach to their end of life journey, allowing them a safe, gentle permanent retirement where all their needs, physical, emotional and mental will be met in full.  | £23,912
<strong>THE MILLS EQUUS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1159363](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159363)]<br>The relief of suffering and distress of horses, ponies, donkeys and mules which are in need of care and attention and in particular to provide for the establishment and maintenance of facilities for the care and protection of such old, retired, sick, ill-treated, unwanted or abandoned animals. | £243,896
<strong>WOODHAVEN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1021657](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021657)]<br>(1)THE PROVISION OF CARE,PROTECTION AND PERMANENT SECURITY FOR PONIES,HORSES AND DONKEYS WHICH ARE IN NEED OF ATTENTION BY REASON OF SICKNESS, MALTREATMENT,POOR CIRCUMSTANCES, ILL USAGE OR OTHER LIKE CAUSES AND THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY AND SUFFERING AMONG PONIES, HORSES AND DONKEYS   (2)THE RELIEF OF UNDER-PRIVELEGED, DISABLED AND INFIRM PERSONS AND IN PARTICULAR CHILDREN BY THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR PONY RIDING AND HANDLING INTENDED TO PROMOTE THEIR MENTAL AND PHYSICAL TRAINING AND RECREATION AND MORE ESPECIALLY THEIR MENTAL AND PHYSICAL REHABILITATION AND WELL-BEING AND THE PROMOTION OF RESEARCH INTO THE EFFECTS OF PONY RIDING AND HANDLING FOR THE PURPOSE AFORESAID AND THE PUBLICATION OF ANY USEFUL RESULT OF ANY SUCH RESEARCH | 
<strong>HORSEWORLD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1121920](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121920)]<br>Ensuring quality of life for horses ponies & donkeys by providing a healthy & secure future. Operating an effective rescue rehabilitation & rehoming programme actively promoting & encouranging responsible equine ownership. Supporting & working closely with local communities & organisations. Educating children with emotional behavioural & learning difficulties through our Discovery Programme. | £1,166,654
<strong>THE DONKEY SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [264818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-264818)]<br>TO PROVIDE RESCUE HOMES AND TREATMENT FOR DONKEYS, MULES AND OTHER SUCH ANIMALS, AND TO PREVENT CRUELTY TO SUCH ANIMALS THROUGH PROMOTING HUMANE BEHAVIOUR TOWARDS THEM.ENHANCING PEOPLE'S LIVES THROUGH WORKING WITH DONKEYS AND MULES AND BRINGING ENJOYMENT INTO THE LIVES OF CHILDREN AND ADULTS WITH ADDITIONAL NEEDS. | £59,600,125
