# Cats `AN101`

Cats is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Animals](AN.md) category.

459 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.23% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cats?|felines?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 88 | 0.12%
£10k - £100k | 179 | 0.25%
£100k - £250k | 71 | 0.32%
£250k - £500k | 31 | 0.28%
£500k - £1m | 15 | 0.22%
£1m - £10m | 22 | 0.24%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.13%
Total | 409 | 0.21%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 409 | 0.24%
oscr | 40 | 0.16%
ccni | 10 | 0.14%
Total | 459 | 0.23%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Cats Protection</strong> [Charity number: [SC037711](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037711)]<br>The League is established to relieve the suffering and distress of cats. | £96,902,000
<strong>CATS PROTECTION</strong> [Charity number: [203644](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-203644)]<br>Homing, neutering and the provision of information.  Cats Protection operates through a network of around 250 volunteer led branches throughout the United Kingdom.  We are also registered with OSCR.  In addition to the branch network we have 32 purpose built cat adoption centres.  Branches and adoption centres work side by side to deliver cat work. | £96,902,000
<strong>BATTERSEA DOGS' AND CATS' HOME</strong> [Charity number: [206394](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206394)]<br>We aim never to turn away a dog or cat in need of help. We reunite lost dogs and cats with their owners; when we cannot do this, we care for them until new homes can be found for them; and we educate the public about responsible pet ownership. | £70,340,000
<strong>ANIMALS ASIA FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1086903](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086903)]<br>Animals Asia is devoted to ending the barbaric practice of bear bile farming and improving the welfare of animals in China and Vietnam. We promote compassion and respect for all animals and work to bring about long-term change.  Particular emphasis is  on ending bear bile farming, ending the trade in dogs and cats for meat and improving the welfare of captive animals in zoos and safari parks. | £6,017,178
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS BATH AND DISTRICT BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [205594](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205594)]<br>Animal welfare including rescue, rehabilitation and rehoming of companion animals (dog and cats ), animal welfare education activities, outreach work. | £5,083,560
<strong>CENTRE FOR ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGY CHARITY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [265239](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265239)]<br>CAT seeks to inspire, inform and enable people to adopt sustainable technologies and practices. The Charity achieves its objectives by: promoting scenarios for a Zero Carbon Britian; providing education through school visits, short courses and postgraduate teaching; publishing a members' magazine; providing a free information service; operating a visitor centre; hosting external events. | £4,310,221
<strong>The Big Cat Sanctuary Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [1104420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104420)]<br>The Big Cat Sanctuary houses a diverse and genetically valuable collection of felids.  TBCS is an active member of many European Breeding Programmes.The Sanctuary raises funds through photographic workshops, experiences, annual open days and events.Funds raised at TBCS are invested back into the Sanctuary for the welfare of our cats and used as contributions to our conservation work in the UK | £3,646,058
<strong>NATIONAL ANIMAL WELFARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1090499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090499)]<br>The National Animal Welfare Trust's primary purpose is to rescue and re-home animals, primarily cats and dogs, but also farm animals and small domestic pets too. | £3,577,387
<strong>INTERNATIONAL CAT CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1117342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117342)]<br>International Cat Care Ltd is a charity dedicated to promoting the health and welfare of cats through improved feline knowledge, to help us all care better for our cats. | £3,086,494
<strong>UK CAT CONSORTIUM</strong> [Charity number: [1133667](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133667)]<br>UKCAT provides and develops a University admission test aiming to achieve greater fairness in selection to medicine and dentistry and widening participation in medical and dental training of under-represented groups. Through a research programme UKCAT is seeking to identify characteristics in applicants that will make them good dentists/doctors with the ultimate aim of improving patient care. | £3,033,140


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LOST CATS BRIGHTON</strong> [Charity number: [1119083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119083)]<br>Lost Cats Brighton aims to relieve the suffering & distress of cats experience by rescuing abandoned, unwanted, mistreated, injured & homeless cats & kittens, providing veterinary care, food, accommodation as necessary, but with the ultimate aim of rehoming healthy animals whenever possible. In addition to trap, neuter & return feral cats, & to educate the public in feline welfare. (Sussex) | £21,902
<strong>EA-CAT</strong> [Charity number: [1160703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160703)]<br>Eastern Community Assistance Team (EA-CAT) aims to provide support to Emergency Services and Local Authority during times where 4x4 vehicles are the only ones still mobile, particularly but not specifically within the county of Suffolk. Our members are mainly experienced 4x4 owners who are able to provide various services in and around the county. | £3,847
<strong>CUDDLES CATS RESCUE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1125782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125782)]<br>Cuddles Cat Rescue takes in unwanted cats and kittens including strays. Cares for them, neuters them where necessary and re homes them to suitable persons. Raises funds to pay for vets bills,food,litter and other associated costs. Educates the public in caring for their cats. | £21,837
<strong>Sunny Harbour Cat and Kitten Rescue</strong> [Charity number: [SC041871](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041871)]<br>Objects of the Trust  The objects of the Trust are to relieve suffering in cases of neglect and abandonment of unwanted, domestic and stray cats: to provide care for orphaned kittens from birth to twelve weeks and to re-home them. to provide a place of safety and refuge for cats and kittens where their owner can no longer care for them and to re-home them: to provide assistance in case of emergency to those members of the public who need help to care for their cats on a board basis during times of family or medical emergency or temporary homelessness: to reduce the occurrence of unwanted kittens via neutering awareness and as part of the re-homing process to actively promote good welfare for cats/kittens in Scotland. Education for the public in aspects of appropriate care for a cat and providing dedicated cat related advice and support services. | £57,021
<strong>ASSOCIATION OF DOGS AND CATS HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1180574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180574)]<br>The Association of Dogs and Cats Homes comprises dog and cat rescue and rehoming organisations across the British Isles.The Association works to promote best practice and high welfare and operational standards across the sector, engage effectively with a range of external stakeholders, including Governments, and bring rescue organisations together to share experiences, learning and networking. | £375,979
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THE STRAYS OF GREECE</strong> [Charity number: [1094238](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094238)]<br>Fund the welfare of stray dogs & cats in Greece by helping to provide them with food, shelter & veterinary care. Some animals are found homes in the UK. | £159,209
<strong>SAVING SRI LANKA STRAYS</strong> [Charity number: [1209913](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209913)]<br>TO PROMOTE HUMANE BEHAVIOUR TOWARDS ANIMALS, IN PARTICULAR CATS AND DOGS IN SRI LANKA BY PROVIDING APPROPRIATE CARE, PROTECTION, TREATMENT AND SECURITY FOR DOGS AND CATS, (INCLUDING FEEDING, SPAYING, NEUTERING, VACCINATION AND VETERINARY TREATMENT) WHICH ARE IN NEED OF CARE AND ATTENTION BY REASON OF SICKNESS, MALTREATMENT, POOR CIRCUMSTANCES OR ILL USAGE AND TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC IN MATTERS PERTAINING TO ANIMAL WELFARE IN GENERAL AND THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY AND SUFFERING TO ANIMALS, IN PARTICULAR CATS AND DOGS IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL THINK FIT INCLUDING NEUTERING STRAY ANIMALS AND PROVIDING RABIES VACCINATIONS AND FLEA AND WORM TREATMENTS. | 
<strong>ANIMALS AT RISK SHELTER</strong> [Charity number: [1044094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1044094)]<br>Replaced 5 old pens with 11 pens and one large cat unit, which comply with new legislation for boarding catteries, keeping in front of any proposed future legislation on animal accommodation for animal rescue groups. Commenced replacements for the remaing facilities. We have continued with our ever important spaying and neutering work and education on animal welfare. | £141,944
<strong>Frank William Finch's Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC049658](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049658)]<br>'the discretionary beneficiaries' shall mean the following:- (b) the said Cats Protection. (c) any other charity for the benefit of animals. 'the accumulation period' shall mean the period commencing on the date of my death and ending twenty one year thereafter. (2) TRUST PURPOSES I direct my Trustees to hold the Discretionary Trust Fund and to pay and make over the same and any income arising thereon to any one or more of the discretionary beneficiaries in such amounts, shares and proportions as my Trustees may in their absolute discretion by Minute or Minutes, revocable or irrevocable, at any time or times determine | £88,712
<strong>Edinburgh Cat Protection League</strong> [Charity number: [SC054757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054757)]<br>To promote the welfare of cats in every possible way and in particular:- to relieve the suffering of stray, neglected and unwanted cats in need of care, protection and attention and, specifically, to provide and maintain facilities for the reception, care and treatment of such cats.*to provide a rescue, rehabilitation and rehoming service for such cats to provide veterinary treatment for cats in care of the charity including the neutering of cats of both sexes. *to educate the public in the care and responsible ownership of cats, and to co-operate with other charities working for the welfare of cats, in all ways consistent with these purposes. | 
