# Horses `AN104`

Horses is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Animals](/data/ukcat/AN) category.

604 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.30% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(horses?|equine|dressage|(pon(y|ies)+)|horsemanship)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 210 | 0.28%
£10k - £100k | 203 | 0.30%
£100k - £250k | 74 | 0.36%
£250k - £500k | 33 | 0.34%
£500k - £1m | 25 | 0.41%
£1m - £10m | 19 | 0.22%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.49%
Total | 574 | 0.30%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 529 | 0.31%
oscr | 53 | 0.21%
ccni | 22 | 0.31%
Total | 604 | 0.30%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Odyssey Trust Company Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100113](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100113)]<br>Purpose 1: The construction (completed in 2001), ongoing maintenance, revenue and capital funding for an interactive science centre (known as w5) at Queens Quay in Belfast. The facility includes 3 floors of permanent exhibits, space for temporary exhibitions, laboratories for use by schools/groups, state of the art lecture theatre and meeting rooms. Space is allocated for specialist education and demonstration staff in addition to operations and administrative employees. The day to day management of the Science Centre is by Whowhatwherewhenwhy(w5) by way of a lease. W5 is a charity with related objects and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Odyssey Trust. The facility is open 362 days per year to the general public. In 2012/13 w5 catered for 302,452 visitors (including outreach) including 48,958 in formal education groups. Purpose 2: The construction (completed in 2000), ongoing maintenance, revenue and capital funding for a 10,000 seat multipurpose indoor arena (known as the Odyssey Arena) at Queens Quay Belfast. The facility caters for a wide range of events including concerts, family shows, theatre style shows and sports events. Sports events include Ice Hockey, Athletics, Basket Ball, Horse of the year show, indoor football, arenacross, darts, boxing, wrestling and the recent World Police and Fire games. Formats of the Arena cater for audiences of 2,500 up to 10,800. The Arena is managed under an operation contract on a day to day basis by SMG, an international arena operator. In the year 2012/13 the Arena audiences totalled 626,868 through 117 events. | £21,182,232
<strong>THE BROOKE HOSPITAL FOR ANIMALS</strong> [Charity number: [1085760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085760)]<br>Since it was founded in 1934, the Brooke has helped to relieve the suffering of  millions of working horses, donkeys and mules and improved the livelihoods of the countless people who depend upon them. The Brooke provides veterinary services in some of the world's poorest communities, treating animals and training animal-owners in countries including Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Kenya and Pakistan. | £20,283,174
<strong>CHATSWORTH HOUSE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [511149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511149)]<br>Opening the House and gardens and part at Chatsworth every day from mid March to Christmas.Holding various events and exhibitions.Offering educational programmes for school visits and self-led activities. Holding an annual Country Fair.Holding international horse trials and other sporting events. Allowing use of grounds and buildings for other charity activities. | £17,406,605
<strong>World Horse Welfare</strong> [Charity number: [SC038384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038384)]<br>The protection and rehabilitation of equines in the United Kingdom and Overseas | £16,471,000
<strong>WORLD HORSE WELFARE</strong> [Charity number: [206658](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206658)]<br>Charity exists to promote horse welfare. In UK through rehabilitation centres where horses can be returned to health ; Field Officers investigate welfare concerns and give advice.Overseas by working with communities and local bodies to provide equine and other skills to help working horses.Internationally by campaigning for improved welfare and an end to long distance transport for slaughter | £16,471,000
<strong>THE BRITISH HORSE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [210504](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210504)]<br>The British Horse Society works for horses and riders in the UK and abroad. Focusing on horse welfare, horse and rider safety, access and rights of way, training and approving livery yards and riding schools.  The Society promotes community participation in healthy recreation involving the horse, at both competition and grass roots level. | £15,202,000
<strong>The British Horse Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC038516](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038516)]<br>(1) To promote and advance the education, training and safety of the public in all matters relating to the horse. (2) To promote the use, breeding, well-being, safety, environment, health and management of the horse for the public benefit. (3) To promote community participation in healthy recreation involving the horse.  (4) To promote and facilitate the prevention of cruelty, neglect or harm to horses and to promote the relief, safety, sanctuary, rescue and welfare of horses in need of care, attention and assistance. (5) To promote and secure the provision, protection and preservation of rights of way and of access for ridden and driven horses over public roads, highways, footpaths, bridleways, carriageways, public paths and other land. Horses for the purpose of the objects means any member of the family Equidae. | £15,202,000
<strong>Redwings Horse Sanctuary</strong> [Charity number: [SC045070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045070)]<br>3.1 For the benefit of the public to relieve the suffering of horses, ponies, donkeys and mules which have suffered from maltreatment, neglect or poor circumstances. 3.2 To advance the education of the public in matters pertaining to the welfare of horses, ponies, donkeys and mules in general and the prevention of cruelty and suffering among such animals. | £13,335,673
<strong>REDWINGS HORSE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1068911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068911)]<br>Redwings operates sanctuaries and rehoming across England, Scotland and Wales. Our primary purpose is to provide and promote the welfare, protection and care of horses, ponies donkeys and mules that have suffered from maltreatment, neglect or poor circumstances, through rescue, rehabilitation and sanctuary care, and by educating people | £13,335,673
<strong>THE PONY CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1050146](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1050146)]<br>To encourage young people to ride and to enjoy all kinds of sport connected with ponies and riding. To give instruction in riding and in all matters relating to ponies and riding and to provide education in looking after and taking proper care of animals. To promote the highest ideals of sportsmanship, citizenship and loyalty to create strength of character and self-discipline. | £12,500,150


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PABLO'S HORSE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1116394](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116394)]<br>The Charity takes in horses and ponies who's owners will not or cannot look after them any longer for financial, health or other reasons.The horses and ponies are looked after by a team of volunteers and we try to give them as good a life as possible with care and respect.We operate from Melton Mowbray, Leicestershire and most of our horses and ponies are from the local area. | £77,661
<strong>ROLEYSTONE HORSE AND PONY SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1198065](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198065)]<br>To promote humane behaviour towards equines; by providing appropriate care, protection, treatment and security for equines which are in need of care and attention by reasoning of sickness, maltreatment poor circumstances or ill usage and to educate the public in matters pertaining to equine welfare in general and the prevention of cruelty and suffering among equines. | £83,486
<strong>POSITIVE RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1178998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178998)]<br>Providing people with disabilities with the opportunity to ride, carriage drive and be with horses and the natural environment for their health and well-being. | 
<strong>THE HIGH RIDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1082167](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082167)]<br>Provides horse riding activities for disabled children, under the umbrella of Riding for the Disabled Association | £6,167
<strong>Omagh Spires Special Olympics Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI101470](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101470)]<br>We offer a programme of sport for all levels of ability.At present our club offers weekly training sessions in the following sports Bocce-Wednesday -5pm-7pm-Omagh Leisure Complex Minor Hall Golf-Monday-5.30-6.30pm -Clanabogan putting range weather permitting . Swimming-Thursday 6pm-7pm- Omagh Leisure Complex Equestrianism -All those athletes interested in horse riding register with the RDA and are allocated a slot by the RDA management. The members come together 2 or 3 times a season and more often in the lead up to competitions. There is an annual Registration fee of £25. Each athlete receives a free club polo shirt upon registering. For competitions Athletes or teams are grouped in divisions to ensure fair competition and each athlete or team is recognised for his/her performance with medals awarded for first through to third place, and ribbons for fourth through to eighth place. Competition is offered at area, regional and national level, with an opportunity to progress to international competition. A number of leagues and inter club events are organised locally throughout the year that offer additional competitive opportunities. Our clubs mission and vision mirrors Special Olympics in that we to provide year-round sports training and athletic competition in a variety of olympic-type sports for children and adults with an intellectual disability, giving them continuing opportunities to develop physical fitness, demonstrate courage, experience joy and participate in a sharing of gifts, skills and friendships with their families, other Special Olympics athletes and the community.” Our Vision is that every person with an intellectual disability in our local community has the opportunity,to participate in high quality sport training and development opportunities that bring life-changing experiences of increased skills, self-confidence and joy. | £18,829
<strong>THE NEW FOREST PONY BREEDING AND CATTLE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1064746](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064746)]<br>Hold and update the New Forest Pony Stud Book,  promote pedigree and part bred New Forest Ponies here and around the world.  Hold an Annual Breed Show and Stallion Show for New Forest ponies, Educate the public about New Forest ponies. | £75,529
<strong>ROYAL ARTILLERY SADDLE CLUB, ROYAL ARTILLERY BARRACKS, LARKHILL</strong> [Charity number: [1169361](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169361)]<br>The Royal Artillery Saddle Club is a charity which has been set up to help phase 2 soldiers and officers to learn to horse ride, it also provides a livery service to service personell and their dependants. They offer riding lessons to children to help bring in money to help with the upkeep of the horses and ponies. | £186,722
<strong>THE STABLES HORSE ACTIVITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1108451](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108451)]<br>This centre is for people with or without disabilities, with integration being central to the project.  The horse is a good medium for people regardless of ability, allowing the opportunity to develop self-esteem through looking after the horse alongside promoting physical health through riding the horse. | £204,978
<strong>WELSH INSTITUTE OF THERAPEUTIC HORSEMANSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1147117](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147117)]<br>WITH provides opportunities for disadvantaged individuals to work with horses and take part in educational and recreational activities to gain confidence and other life skills. Equine-assisted activities involve both ground and ridden activities. During groundwork sessions, service users learn horse care and training techniques. Ridden activities involve learning to ride and negotiating obstacles. | £62,995
<strong>SEASIDE VENTURE GROUP RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1073606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073606)]<br>To support disabled persons of all ages inaccessing horse riding for therapauticand recreational purposes | £21,296
