# Languages `AR103`

Languages is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) category.

573 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(modern languages?|(welsh|Gaelic|french|german|spanish|polish|arabic|bengali|hindi|russian|farsi|japanese|chinese|urdu|portuguese|the) language|cymreig|gymraeg)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 141 | 0.20%
£10k - £100k | 212 | 0.30%
£100k - £250k | 93 | 0.41%
£250k - £500k | 25 | 0.23%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.24%
£1m - £10m | 14 | 0.15%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.22%
Total | 507 | 0.26%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 451 | 0.26%
oscr | 103 | 0.41%
ccni | 19 | 0.27%
Total | 573 | 0.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WJEC CBAC LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1073332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073332)]<br>-Provide high quality qualifications, resources & support for teachers and learners-Develop, promote & provide appropriate systems of assessment and examinations -Support & enhance the development of the Welsh language & culture in Wales-Nurture & develop talents through arts and education by promoting, supporting and advancing the development of Youth Arts in Wales. | £61,259,810
<strong>CWMNI URDD GOBAITH CYMRU (CORFFOREDIG) / THE WELSH LEAGUE OF YOUTH (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [524481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524481)]<br>Prif amcanion yr elusen yw sicrhau bod holl ieuenctid Cymru yn cael y cyfle trwy gyfrwng y gymraeg i ddatblygu'n unigolion cyflawn, a'u galluogi i chwarae rhan adeiladol yn y gymdeithas. Trwy feithrin sgiliau personol a chymdeithasol. Cynigir profiadau canolfannau preswyl, profiadau celfyddydol, ystod eang o chwaraeon, ynghyd a darpariaeth o weithgaredd ar lefel leol. | £18,325,446
<strong>INTERNATIONAL HOUSE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [270860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270860)]<br>The Charity exists for the advancement of the education of the public in languages.  Its object are realised principally through International House London, an internationally reputed language school. Its main activities are the teaching of English and the teaching of other Modern Languages and the training of language teachers. | £17,593,460
<strong>GERMAN SCHOOL ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [325073](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-325073)]<br>To educate children and adults in the language, literature and general culture of GermanyTo promote the education of German speaking persons of all ages resident in Germany and elsewhere in the language, literature and general culture of EnglandGenerally to promote the study of German culture in England, and English culture in Germany. | £14,541,392
<strong>Y COLEG CYMRAEG CENEDLAETHOL</strong> [Charity number: [1143525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143525)]<br>AMCAN Y COLEG YW, ER LLES Y CYHOEDD, HYBU DYSG A GWYBODAETH DRWY HYRWYDDO, CYNNAL, DATBLYGU A CHYNLLUNIO DARPARIAETH CYFRWNG CYMRAEG A IAITH GYMRAEG MEWN ADDYSG UWCH, BELLACH A PHARHAUS YNG NGHYMRU, A HYRWYDDO, CYNNAL, DATBLYGU A CHYNLLUNIO DYSGU, CAFFAEL, GWELLA A GLOYWI SGILIAU CYFATHREBU IAITH GYMRAEG I BOBL YN GYFFREDINOL GYDA SEFYDLIADAU ADDAS YNG NGHYMRU A MANNAU ERAILL. | £11,045,828
<strong>RIKKYO SCHOOL IN ENGLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [306987](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306987)]<br>THE EDUCATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND AND THE HOLY CATHOLIC CHURCH OF JAPAN OF BOYS AND GIRLS AGED 10 TO 18 TO THE STANDARDS REQUIRED FOR ENTRY INTO UNIVERSITIES IN JAPAN, WHILST TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE UNIQUE GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF THE SCHOOL THROUGH EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES, BOTH ACADEMIC AND SPORTING. | £7,218,740
<strong>EISTEDDFOD GENEDLAETHOL CYMRU</strong> [Charity number: [1155539](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155539)]<br>(1) hyrwyddo addysg y cyhoedd yn nhreftadaeth a diwylliant Cymru, y gwyddorau a'r iaith Gymraeg; a(2) hyrwyddo, cadw a diogelu treftadaeth a diwylliant Cymru a'r iaith Gymraeg,    drwy unrhyw ddull a modd a wel yr ymddiriedolwyr yn dda yn cynnwys trwy gynnal gwyl genedlaethol yn flynyddol,     sef Eisteddfod Genedlaethol Cymru. | £6,695,000
<strong>Sabhal Mor Ostaig</strong> [Charity number: [SC002578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002578)]<br>3.1.1 To develop and deliver tertiary education through the medium of Gaelic exclusively up to and including university level in such subjects and branches of knowledge as the Governors may from time to time decide and to promote and facilitate post-graduate research in such areas, and to do all or any of the foregoing in the Isle of Skye, Scotland, or elsewhere in Scotland or the rest of the world. 3.1.2 To promote and facilitate and work with others in promoting and facilitating the teaching and learning of the Gaelic language by devising and delivering resources and courses for such teaching and learning through any medium. 3.1.3 Generally to promote and facilitate at all levels and by all means approved by the Governors from time to time the study of all aspects of the Gaelic language and its associated history, culture and arts, including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, (a) the study and performance of the traditional music of, or associated with, the Gael, (b) the teaching of skills in all branches of the communications media including written, audio, televisual and online means of communication and broadcasting and in such new media as may come into being in the future and (c) the study of the techniques and strategies necessary for the survival of minority languages as living community languages. 3.1.4 To acquire the assets and undertaking and assume the debts and liabilities of the Scottish charity known as Sabhal Mor Ostaig, registered under SC002578, to use such name and to carry on charitable activities in succession thereto. 3.1.5 To develop and promote the College as the National Centre for Gaelic in Scotland for the purposes of promotion of the language as a living and sustainable language in Scotland and of playing a central role in the delivery of the National Plans for Gaelic to be promulgated by Bord na Gaidhlig or any successor under the Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005 or any successor legislation. 3.1.6 To develop and | £6,552,994
<strong>COLEG LLANYMDDYFRI</strong> [Charity number: [1149946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149946)]<br>The advancement of;  education by the conduct of Llandovery College or such other schools in Wales as the trustees shall decide & by other ancillary activities for the benefit of the community;   education for the provision of instruction in the Welsh Language, Heritage, Culture & Arts; religion by the provision of instruction in accordance with the principles & doctrines of the Church in Wales. | £4,944,926
<strong>THE JAPANESE SCHOOL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [271665](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271665)]<br>To educate Japanese pupils aged 6 to 15 years old based upon the Japanese curriculum and to advance the education of those children in the language, literature and general culture of Japan. To provide a meeting place and opportunities for contacts with pupils of other schools, the locals as well as the Japanese community. | £4,156,206


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CYLCH MEITHRIN DOLBADARN</strong> [Charity number: [1209070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209070)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF PRE-SCHOOL AND PRIMARY AGED CHILDREN (WITH PARTICULAR FOCUS ON PRE-SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN) THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF WELSH LANGUAGE WITHIN THE AREA OF LLANBERIS A NANT PERIS.HYRWYDDO ADDYSG GYFRWNG CYMRAEG I BLANT OED CYN YSGOL A PHLANT YSGOL GYNRADD (GAN GANOLBWYNTIO’N BENODOL AR BLANT OED CYN YSGOL) YN LLANBERIS A NANT PERIS | £65,671
<strong>GERMAN SCHOOL ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [325073](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-325073)]<br>To educate children and adults in the language, literature and general culture of GermanyTo promote the education of German speaking persons of all ages resident in Germany and elsewhere in the language, literature and general culture of EnglandGenerally to promote the study of German culture in England, and English culture in Germany. | £14,541,392
<strong>Dundee Chinese School</strong> [Charity number: [SC044552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044552)]<br>4.1 To advance understanding of Chinese language and culture. 4.2 To provide both children and adults an opportunity to learn Chinese language and culture. 4.3 To promote Chinese culture in the local community by working with other arts and cultural bodies. 4.4 To improve mutual understanding and promote racial harmony amongst the Chinese community, the host community and other ethnic groups in and around the City of Dundee.  | £20,660
<strong>THE MADANI ACADEMY PORTSMOUTH LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1149317](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149317)]<br>Activities include weekend Bengali Culture and Language Schooling; Arabic Language Schooling; Health and Fitness Support; and Hifz classes.Our community hall and rooms provide a valuable educational and recreational resource to all in our local community. A wide variety of activities are organised and take place from our community centre. | £96,194
<strong>CYLCH MEITHRIN PLANT BACH Y BLAENAU</strong> [Charity number: [1207471](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207471)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF PRE-SCHOOL AND PRIMARY AGED CHILDREN (WITH PARTICULAR FOCUS ON PRE-SCHOOL AGED CHILDREN) THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF WELSH LANGUAGE WITHIN BLAENAU, LLANDYBIE AND AMMANFORD AREA. | 
<strong>Clan MacEwen Society SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC054473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054473)]<br>The organisation’s mission is: to preserve and advance the ancient heritage, traditions, and values of Clan MacEwen, foster unity and collaboration amongst the Society’s MEMBERS and contribute to local communities through cultural events, education, and charitable work.  The organisation’s goals and objectives include:  a. Promoting and supporting research into and the study of the origins, history, heritage and culture of Clan MacEwen, and the ancient territory of the Cowal peninsula and areas of subsequent historical  importance to Clan MacEwen and other Scottish Clans publishing the findings of such research, and disseminating this information using suitable communication media. b. Delivering talks and making presentations, including at film shows, cultural and other events, while taking a lead role in the dissemination of knowledge of Scottish historial heritage, in alignment of and useful for the purposes of the SCIO. c. Preserving or assisting in preserving sites, buildings, monuments, memorials, artefacts, and musical, literary, and artistic traditions which are of historic interest and connection to Clan MacEwen and/or to Scotland, whether vested in the SCIO or not. d. The BOARD shall oversee the management and verification of tree planting and sustainability initiatives, reporting annually to the MEMBERS. e. Establishing and promoting a centre or centres in Scotland, and elsewhere, for (amongst other things) the preservation and display of such articles as are specified in 4.2 (c) above, including a research and study library. f. To promote the study, teaching, and public use of the Scottish Gaelic language, especially dialects associated with Argyll and Cowal.  g. Promoting the Highland Arts and strengthen our profile and relationships  across the globe. h. Building a relationships and collaborating with other clan societies and trusts to promote clanship.  Additional goals and objectives include:  a. To advance the education of young people who are eligible to be (but need not be) voting MEMBERS of the SCIO by granting scholarships or bursaries to assist with their study of Scottish arts, heritage and culture. b. To protect and improve the natural environment of the areas of historical or subsequent importance to Clan MacEwen. the Society commits to working with local partners to rejuvenate the landscape and coastal areas of the Cowal peninsula of Scotland.  c. To promote environmental sustanability action, the Society has a core project to plant a tree in Kilfinan Community Forest for every MEMBER renewal, and encourages MEMBERS to plant trees wherever they are in the world. | 
<strong>ADEEG COMMUNITY CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1116877](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116877)]<br>a.Advocacy and interpreting servicesb.Referring clients to appropriate social and community service providersc.Advice and training for citizenship course for Somali communityd.Advice, Information and Guidance to young Somali people on drug misuse, prevention and rehabilitation programmese.Employment and Work opportunityf.Health Awareness Programmesg.Football training for young people | £9,800
<strong>YSGOL GYMRAEG NANT CAERAU PTFA</strong> [Charity number: [1175759](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175759)]<br>We are a small, one form entry Welsh school. We organise events such as Christmas and Summer fetes, Stalls in school for dates such as Mother's Day, Father's Day and Easter. We also organise evening activities such as curry night etc. We have a ongoing Lottery, which is drawn each week. The funds raised help the school purchase equipment for the children. | £3,593
<strong>ECP - Education Centre SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC047747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047747)]<br>3.1 The charitable purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are:  3.1.1 The advancement of education through  3.1.1.1 the delivery of educational programmes and activities and by supporting Polish children living in Scotland to attend and learn through teaching English, Polish, history, literature music, integration and any other relevant subject. and 3.1.1.2 providing English education to children and adults in Poland and operating English nurseries, schools and educational camps in Poland.  3.1.2 The advancement of heritage through 3.1.2.1 preserving and developing the culture and heritage of Poland by initiating, supporting and delivering projects celebrating and promoting Polish history, language and culture in Scotland and elsewhere. and 3.1.2.2 promoting British culture in Poland.  3.1.3 The promotion of equality and diversity through:  3.1.3.1 organising and supporting educational programmes, events and other initiatives related to the use of the Polish language outside of Poland. 3.1.3.2 active promotion of bilingualism among the Polish communities.    | £325,262
<strong>CYLCH MEITHRIN TREHARRIS</strong> [Charity number: [1213552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1213552)]<br>Cylch Meithrin Treharris is located in Treharris, the aim of the Cylch is to provide a happy, familiar atmosphere in which children learn through play through the medium of Welsh. Firstly, we was open Treharris Church Hall. We are now based in our very own building. We encourage the children to speak the Welsh language, through games, stories, finger rhymes and songs. | 
