# Culture `AR101`

Culture is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) category.

4 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.00% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 0 | 0.00%
£10k - £100k | 0 | 0.00%
£100k - £250k | 0 | 0.00%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.18%
Total | 4 | 0.00%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2 | 0.00%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 2 | 0.01%
Total | 4 | 0.00%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BRITISH COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [209131](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209131)]<br>The British Council creates friendly knowledge and understanding between the people of the UK and other countries. We do this by making a positive contribution to the UK and the countries we work with. We reach millions of people across the world, working with over 100 countries in the fields of arts and culture, English language, education and civil society. | £989,335,930
<strong>British Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC037733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037733)]<br>(a)         promote cultural relationships between the people of the United Kingdom and other countries. (b)         develop a wider knowledge of the English language. and (c)          encourage educational co-operation between the United Kingdom and other countries, support the advancement of United Kingdom education and education standards overseas, and otherwise promote education.  | £989,335,930
<strong>THE NATIONAL TRUST FOR PLACES OF HISTORIC INTEREST OR NATURAL BEAUTY</strong> [Charity number: [205846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205846)]<br>To look after places of historic interest or natural beauty permanently for the benefit of the nation across England, Wales and Northern Ireland. | £766,195,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £151,659,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
