# Festival `AR102`

Festival is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) category.

2,701 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.33% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(festivals?|eisteddfod|carnival)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 738 | 1.04%
£10k - £100k | 1,114 | 1.59%
£100k - £250k | 277 | 1.24%
£250k - £500k | 128 | 1.17%
£500k - £1m | 75 | 1.09%
£1m - £10m | 51 | 0.56%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.31%
Total | 2,390 | 1.24%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,249 | 1.31%
oscr | 259 | 1.04%
ccni | 193 | 2.68%
Total | 2,701 | 1.33%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SAMARITANS</strong> [Charity number: [219432](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219432)]<br>Samaritans is the coordinating body for the 201 Samaritans branches located across the UK and Ireland.  Samaritans provides a safe place for people to talk, round the clock, every single day of the year. People can get in touch by phone, email, letter or by visiting a branch. Volunteers also do outreach work, for example, at festivals, prisons, hospitals and schools. | £27,517,000
<strong>MANCHESTER INTERNATIONAL FESTIVAL</strong> [Charity number: [1113902](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113902)]<br>Organising and staging a biennial arts festival of performances, exhibitions and special events, commissioning new work for the public benefit. Organising and staging performances between Festivals. Touring selected commissions to venues and arts festivals in the UK and the rest of the world. In 2023 we transitioned to our permanent venue in Manchester -Aviva Studios,home of Factory International. | £24,235,682
<strong>CHICHESTER FESTIVAL THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [1088552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088552)]<br>With its two auditoria, together offering some 1,600 seats, Chichester Festival Theatre is the major publicly funded theatre resource in the South East of England. It aims to balance a repertory of diverse and challenging productions and a socially inclusive educational policy with high attendances from a wide geographic and demographic spread. | £23,233,084
<strong>Edinburgh International Festival Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC004694](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004694)]<br>To promote and encourage the arts, especially opera, plays, dramas, ballet and music, and the study of the arts and, for these purposes, to organise, promote, manage and conduct festivals of music, dramas and other entertainments in Edinburgh or elsewhere annually or at such longer intervals as the Company may determine. | £16,586,000
<strong>BRIGHTON DOME AND FESTIVAL LTD</strong> [Charity number: [249748](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249748)]<br>Brighton Dome & Festival Limited is constituted to advance education through the promotion, production and encouragement of a variety of art forms including music, dance, theatre and outdoor performance. This objective is realised through the annual presentation of the Brighton Festival and the year round operation of Brighton Dome. | £16,276,597
<strong>Aberdeen Performing Arts</strong> [Charity number: [SC033733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033733)]<br>1.	The Company's charitable objects are:  a.	to present, provide or assist in the provision of facilities at reasonable cost for arts and cultural activities, including but not limited to music, opera, drama, dance, literature, visual and digital arts and entertainment (such facilities being provided from time to time being hereinafter referred to as 'the Facilities') for the general public in, or in connection with, the Local Authority area of the Council as defined in Schedule 1 to the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 (such Local Authority area being referred hereafter to as 'Aberdeen') and other parts of Scotland in the interests of social welfare and improving the conditions of life of the general public and, also, to encourage the wider use of the Facilities by residents of, and visitors to, Aberdeen and Scotland for festivals, concerts, workshops, conferences and events all related to the performing arts.  b.	to provide accessible and affordable opportunities for all members of the general public in Aberdeen and other parts of Scotland to participate in arts and cultural, activities and access the Facilities including people with protected characteristics under the Equality Act 2010 and people experiencing socio economic deprivation and other forms of disadvantage and to encourage wider participation from all ages and minority groups. and  c.	to advance the education of the public in arts and cultural activities by presenting, promoting, sponsoring, supporting and assisting in the development of public interest in and awareness of arts and cultural activities within and at the Facilities and in the community through the use of out- reach programmes, publications and other media promotion. | £14,359,295
<strong>YMCA FAIRTHORNE GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1090981](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090981)]<br>Working with communities in Hampshire and IOW & providingAfter School Clubs, Holiday Play Schemes, Volunteering Projects, Early Years Childcare, Residential Group Facilities, Daycamps, National Young Carers Festival, Outreach Youth Projects,In school youth work, Holiday Playschemes for Children With Special Needs, Outdoor Education, Forest School, Supported Housing for Young People, | £13,821,000
<strong>Edinburgh Festival Fringe Society Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC002995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002995)]<br>The objects of the Society are:- 4.1.1 To promote and advance for the public benefit the arts and the appreciation of the arts, including, but not restricted to, the arts of drama, mime, dance, singing, music and theatre (all together, 'the Arts'). 4.1.2 To educate, support, advise, and encourage those who participate in the Arts. 4.1.3 To promote the Arts at all levels of cultural and educational life in Scotland and elsewhere. and 4.1.4 To promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions and in such proportions and manner as the Directors shall think fit. Declaring that the expressions 'charitable purpose' or 'charitable object' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts and a 'charitable institution' shall mean a body on the Scottish Charity Register which is also regarded as a charity in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts or a charity within the meaning of section 1 of the Charities Act 2006 or section 1 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 provided that its objects are limited to charitable purposes.' | £8,278,645
<strong>THE ROYAL WELSH AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [251232](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-251232)]<br>The promotion of agriculture, horticulture, forestry and conservation, primarily through the society's Summer show, Winter fair and Spring festival. | £8,082,106
<strong>CHELTENHAM FESTIVALS</strong> [Charity number: [251765](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-251765)]<br>Cheltenham Festivals runs four international festivals of jazz, science, music and literature. The programme is accompanied by a wide-reaching education and outreach programme. The festivals also specialise in developing young talented musicians, scientists and writers. | £7,123,232


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHRIST APOSTOLIC CHURCH-CHRIST DOMINION</strong> [Charity number: [1140839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140839)]<br>Our Charity has successfully rendered welfare assistance to the needy in the Community, in terms of Counselling, Prayer & Financial support. We organised welfare activities for the Community at large during the Easter, Eid-el-Fitri and Christmas festivals where free food & music was provided. Assistance given to people in developing their potentials &self-esteem at living a happy & normalised life | £5,490
<strong>Muslim Welfare Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC001748](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001748)]<br>(a) To foster Islamic brotherhood and way of life in the Muslims of Lanarkshire area. (b) To secure a Juma Mosque and run its management. (c) To secure a plot for the burial of muslim dead and to provide the necessary management in this direction  (d) To celebrate according to Sharia the religious days and all Islamic Festivals. (e) To provide a central place for preaching Islam and to do the utmost work towards introducing and spreading Islam. (f) To provide and manage school for the teaching of Islamic Religious Knowledge, Urdu and Arabic. | £616,105
<strong>OSTERLEY MUSLIM ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1216660](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1216660)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE ISLAMIC FAITH FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN ACCORDANCE WITH AL-QURAN AND THE SUNNAH OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMED (PBUH) AND FOLLOWING THE AHLI SUNNAH WAL JAMAAH IN OSTERLEY AND THE SURROUNDING AREAS IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER MEETINGS, LECTURES, PUBLIC CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, PRODUCING AND/OR DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE ON ISLAM TO ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT THE RELIGION, PROVIDING PASTORAL CARE AND CARRYING OUT OUTREACH WORK IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY. | 
<strong>Festival of Fools</strong> [Charity number: [NI102887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102887)]<br>Festival of Fools stages and annual international street theatre festival in Belfast City Centre over a three or four day period. This Festival delivers around 100 performances from artists from around the world on the streets and public squares of the city free of charge to the public who attend. The event is extensively promoted to a wide general public and attracts large audiences each year. Festival of Fools gives a platform for local artists and young people engaged in circus and street theatre to take part in an international festival. The Festival also offers to create and curate street festivals for other locations in Northern Ireland although to date this service has not been taken up. | £92,989
<strong>FOLKESTONE PRIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1213529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1213529)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION, PROMOTE EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY AND IN PARTICLUAR TO ELIMINATE DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER IDENTITY IN FOLKESTONE AND SURROUNDING AREAS BY ORGANISING AN ANNUAL PRIDE FESTIVAL AND OTHER YEAR-ROUND EVENTS IN THE AREA.  | 
<strong>GARFORTH & DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1174974](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174974)]<br>Garforth & District Lions club operate in town of Garforth and surrounding villages. We raise funds at an annual Gala, Beer Festival and on a Christmas street collection. The funds are used in our district to help the elderly, youth groups and those in need in the area. We also donate towards international projects through Lions clubs International Foundation. | £24,714
<strong>NONSUCH DULCIMER CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1184249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184249)]<br>To advance, improve, develop and maintain public education in, and appreciation of, the art, heritage and science of music as they relate to the hammered, plucked and mountain dulcimer families of musical instruments, primarily but not exclusively within the British Isles, through networking, public concerts, recitals, workshops, lectures, festivals, conferences, exhibitions and grants. | £35,226
<strong>Portglenone Community Workshop and Men's Shed</strong> [Charity number: [NI107307](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107307)]<br>We carry out our purpose by providing a safe and welcoming environment where any member of the community can come to socialise, work on personal or community projects or participate in any of the courses we may offer throughout the year. Members can socialise over a cup of tea while engaging in a game of pool or darts. They can participate in community projects, such as building flower boxes for the town and the local Fold, watering of the flower boxes and baskets around the town and participating in the local festivals. There is also a fully equipped workshop where people can make items or upcycle furniture e.g. bird boxes, dog kennels, flower boxes, picnic tables and summer seats, etc. Some of the activities/classes that members may choose to participate in are: wood turning, slate engraving, basket weaving, guitar tuition, an accredited course in computers run in partnership with the Northern Regional College, photography and yoga. They may also take part in any of the health sessions or workshops, which we either run as part of the activities or on their own. We work with a local chemist where we host a pharmacy project over several weeks addressing topics such as diabetes, stress/anxiety, diet and smoking cessation. Also we have guest speakers from many different health agencies to help educate our members in topics, such as bereavement, mental health/wellbeing,depression, addiction, cancer, heart and stroke as well as others. It is our hope that members will take a proactive approach to their health. If they choose not to take part in some of the discussions, we have a literature stand with information on different topics and where to get help or more information (signposting). The whole concept is to keep people active, both physically and mentally while engaging with other people and other volunteer groups in the area. | £14,061
<strong>Africa In Motion (AiM) Film Festival Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC043215](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043215)]<br>1) The advancement of arts, culture and diversity through the organisation of an annual African film festival and activities or events with similar aims throughout the year. (2) The promotion of community development through the placement of volunteers with the film festival organisation. (3) The promotion of racial harmony and integration through the organisation and promotion of arts-related events which will be used as a platform for multicultural interaction, discussion and debate on various social, cultural and historical issues for people from different backgrounds.  | £22,284
<strong>SUPPORTERS OF CRAWSHAW ACADEMY</strong> [Charity number: [1167829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167829)]<br>We are the Parent Teacher Association for Crawshaw Academy in Pudsey. Our main objective is to fund raise to provide the extra's that core school funding does not cover. We provide refreshments at school events, hold a stall at the annual local carnival and organise local coffee mornings. We also hold a Christmas fayre and we apply for grants available to charities on behalf of the school. | £4,321
