# Visual arts `AR104`

Visual arts is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) category.

2,362 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.16% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(painting|sculpture|sculpting|crafts|crafting|embroidery|ceramics|photography|visual arts?|photography|gallery|artistic works)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 762 | 1.07%
£10k - £100k | 798 | 1.14%
£100k - £250k | 249 | 1.13%
£250k - £500k | 178 | 1.64%
£500k - £1m | 105 | 1.56%
£1m - £10m | 127 | 1.40%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.46%
Total | 2,229 | 1.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,813 | 1.06%
oscr | 301 | 1.22%
ccni | 248 | 3.45%
Total | 2,362 | 1.16%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL COLLECTION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1016972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016972)]<br>To ensure the Royal Collection is subject to proper custodial control and is conserved to the highest possible standards.To ensure the Royal Collection can be seen by as many people as possible.To broaden access through the publication of books and exhibition catalogues and development of the on-line gallery.To make appropriate acquisitions when resources become available. | £89,934,000
<strong>The King’s Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041198)]<br>(i) To promote by all charitable means the mental, spiritual, moral and physical development and improvement of young people and to provide opportunities for them to develop their full capacities and enable them to become responsible members of society so that their conditions of life may be improved, to include: (a) providing facilities for young people for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare.  (b) advancing the education of young people by the provision, encouragement and promotion of education, instruction or training in professions, vocations, industries, crafts, trades or the skills needed in employment.  (c) relieving poverty amongst young people through the provision of assistance (including financial assistance) and encouragement whilst their education is being advanced as aforesaid or whilst they are in the process of establishing new businesses or preparing for entering upon or engaging in a profession, trade, craft or service.  (d) arranging periods of voluntary work in the community. and  (e) for the benefit of the public encouraging and assisting young people in their understanding of and practical action in support of the natural and built environment.  (ii) To promote and conduct research into social conditions affecting young people and the mental, spiritual, moral and physical needs of young people and to publish the useful results of such research.  (iii) To carry out any such approved objects (as defined by Regulation 33 of the Landfill Tax Regulations 1996 or any amendment thereto) as are exclusively charitable and to encourage young people particularly to do so.  (iv) To support such charity or charities or such charitable purpose or purposes as the Council shall in its absolute discretion think fit  | £63,586,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £61,271,000
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £28,804,714
<strong>THE THEATRE ROYAL BATH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [277723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277723)]<br>To promote, maintain, improve and advance education particularly by the production of educational plays and the encouragement of the Arts including the arts of drama, ballet, music, literature, sculpture and painting, particularly but not exclusively for children and young people | £18,835,473
<strong>National Art Collections Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC038331](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038331)]<br>4. Purposes Art Fund exists for the following charitable purposes, for the public benefit and primarily in support of museums, galleries and visual arts organisations: 4.1 To promote art and culture, including (without limitation) by: (a) securing (or assisting others to secure) works of art, and objects of national and historical importance, for presentation or loan to public art collections for public exhibition on such terms as the Trustees consider appropriate. and (b) increasing public access to art and culture.  4.2 To advance education in art and culture. and  4.3 To support the effectiveness of charities that are museums, galleries and other visual arts organisations furthering the purposes set out in clauses 4.1 and 4.2. | £17,681,000
<strong>Screenskills Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039556)]<br>3.1 To promote, advance and provide training and education for persons working or intending to work whether as employees or independent contractors in any sector including, but not limited to, the film, radio, television, video, digital media, photography, photographic processing, digital imaging, animation, computer games, publishing, facilities, advertising, fashion and textiles, and associated industries ('the Industry') and for the purposes of this clause 'facilities' shall mean specialist technical and support services to the creative media industry. 3.2 To promote advance and provide training and education to members of the public generally. | £17,450,415
<strong>THE HALL SCHOOL CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [312722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312722)]<br>The School's principal activity is the education of boys aged between four and thirteen, including sports, music, drama, arts and crafts and other activities. | £14,222,894
<strong>The Jon Schueler Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038261](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038261)]<br>The advancement of the arts and culture in particular by the care and management of the paintings, works on paper and archives of the late Jon Schueler having received the same either on my death or previously. and The advancement of education by giving financial support and encouragement to education and training in the visual arts, in particular painting , through grants or loans to other charities with similar charitable purposes or to individuals. provided that in the case of individuals such grants are awarded on an objective and non-discriminatory basis pursuant to a procedure approved in advance by the Internal Revenue Service | £13,307,905
<strong>DONMAR WAREHOUSE PROJECTS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [284262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284262)]<br>The objects of the charity are to promote, maintain, improve and advance education particularly by theencouragement of the Arts including the arts of drama, ballet, music, singing, literature, sculpture and painting. Thecompany meets these through continuing to produce and present theatrical productions at the Donmar WarehouseTheatre. | £10,098,834


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE WILL TO WORK WORKSHOP LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1093869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093869)]<br>Provision of workshop activities for people recovering from serious illness, to help rebuild self-confidence and self-esteem and to provide a drop-in centre.  Includes woodturning, joinery, simple computer use, and other crafts where suitable instructors are available. | £7,457
<strong>City & Guilds Art School Property Trust</strong> [Charity number: [312871](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312871)]<br>The principal activity of the Trust, which was founded in 1879, is to support the teaching and training students in the Arts, Crafts and Sciences of the Fine Arts. The Trust maintains and develops the land and buildings occupied by the City & Guilds of London Art School, which operates as a separate independent charity since 1 April 2012 following a business transfer agreement. | £307,573
<strong>Auchenheath Village Hall SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053524](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053524)]<br>The advancement of citizenship or community development: The hall could serve as a gathering place for community meetings and events, crafts, fostering a sense of community and citizenship by promoting our cultural heritage as a prior mining community. The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science: hosting cultural events, art exhibitions, and craft fairs, plays, classical music, promoting local arts, heritage, and learning. The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended: for instance, using the hall for various recreational activities such as dances, clubs, and hobby groups, aimed at improving the life conditions for the community. The advancement of public participation in sport: organizing sports activities, encouraging community participation in physical activities. We will advance public participation in sport by offering facilities and equipment, and running community outreach programs. The village hall offers a floor space of 90 m2 suitable for a dance space (capacity of 100 people standing). The venue has a flat entrance round the back and is therefore accessible to all members of the community, including those with disabilities. We will provide necessary sports equipment (yoga mats, yoga bricks and bands) and maintain them for public use. Run outreach programs to encourage participation in sports, such as free come along and try events, and partnerships with schools and community groups. | 
<strong>THE GLAMORGAN FEDERATION OF YOUNG FARMERS CLUBS</strong> [Charity number: [1176227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176227)]<br>* TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AT LARGE IN AGRICULTURE, RURAL LIFE AND AFFAIRS, INTERNATIONAL UNDERSTANDING, HOME CRAFTS, THE ENVIRONMENT, THE ARTS AND RELATED SUBJECTS; AND* IN THE INTERESTS OF THE SOCIAL WELFARE OF SUCH MEMBERS, TO PROVIDE AND PROMOTE THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR RECREATION AND OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATIONS, BEING FACILITIES WHICH WILL IMPROVE THEIR SPIRITUAL AND MENTAL CAPACITIES, HEALTH AND WELL-BEING, RAISE AWARENESS, SELF-RELIANCE AND INDIVIDUAL RESPONSIBILITY SO THAT THEY MAY DEVELOP AS INDIVIDUALS INTO FULL CITIZENS.* TO PROMOTE ITS ACTIVITIES THROUGH THE MEDIUMS OF ENGLISH AND WELSH AND TO ENSURE THOSE ACTIVITIES ENHANCE THE MEMBERS UNDERSTANDING AND KNOWLEDGE OF WELSH RURAL LIFE, WELSH CULTURE AND THE WELSH LANGUAGE, ALONG WITH PROVIDING AN UNDERSTANDING OF OTHER CULTURES. | 
<strong>Ardstraw Area Women's Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI103786](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103786)]<br>Ardstraw Area Womens Group provides a range of social, recreational & educational activities for ladies across the district irrespective of class, creed, sexual orientation, disability, race or marital status. To date we organised health events eg, Big Bus Breast Screening clinic & suicide awareness workshop. We also organise fundraising eg. street collections and bag packing for regional charities, eg Macmillan. The ladies meet once a month with various speakers every month. Speakers provide information on a range of health programmes including suicide awareness and breast screening, family issues and courses on traditional crafts, eg bag making & quilting. We also organised accredited first aid training for those who wish to take part. The group also enjoys networking with other women's groups & craft fairs, thus providing recreational & leisure activities for participants. | £4,937
<strong>WAKE UP AND HELP</strong> [Charity number: [1170447](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170447)]<br>WAKE UP AND HELP DOES  WORK FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT  IN THE UK AND INDIA IN LINE WITH THE OBJECTS  FOR ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION IN INDIAN CULTURE AND HERITAGE, ARTS, CRAFTS, MUSIC AND LANGUAGE,  PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY BY PROVIDING GRANTS, ITEMS AND SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANISATIONS .WORKS TO PREVENT OR RELIEVE POVERTY/SICKNESS PRESERVE HEALTH, WE  WORK TO ADVANCE HINDU RELIGION | £232
<strong>WOMEN'S INSTITUTE - HARLOW</strong> [Charity number: [228992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-228992)]<br>To enable women who are interested in issues associated with rural life (including arts, crafts and sciences) to improve and develop conditions of rural life, to advance their education in citizenship, in public questions (both national and international) in music, drama & other cultural subjects, and in all branches of agriculture, handicrafts, home economics, health & social welfare. | £16,527
<strong>EDENBRIDGE EVENING WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1016209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016209)]<br>Edenbridge Evening WI is a local branch of the National and West Kent Federations of the WI. Our aims include the education of women and girls for the public benefit in all areas including  local, national and international  issues of political and social importance; music, drama and other cultural subjects; agriculture, crafts, home economics, science, health and social welfare. | £3,423
<strong>WESTRIDGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1169481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169481)]<br>The aim of the charity is to create a safe, warm and welcoming space for local arts and crafts groups, ceramicists, needle workers, musicians, book groups, choirs, dance and drama groups, artists, performers and art exhibitors of all ages and abilities. | £29,486
<strong>Artists Collective Gallery Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC009405](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009405)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are: 1 The organisation and administration of a Gallery for the promotion and exhibition of the Visual Arts.  2 To purchase, take on lease, or In exchange, hire or otherwise acquire any property heritable or moveable, real or personal, which may be deemed necessary or convenient for any of the purposes of the Company. 3 To draw, make, accept and endorse promissory notes, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments. 4. To feu, sell, manage, lease, mortgage, exchange, dispose of or otherwise deal with all or any part of the property, heritable or moveable, of the Company as may be expedient with a view to the promotion of the objects. 5 To borrow and raise money for the purposes of the Company in such manner as they may think fit.  6 To invest the monies of the Company not immediately required for its purposes in or upon such investments, securities or property as may be thought fit, subject nevertheless to such conditions or restrictions (If any) and such consents (If any) as may for the time being be imposed or required by law or the terms of grants or bequests from trust or other charitable bodies and subject also as hereinafter provided. 7 To print and publish any newspapers, periodicals, books, leaflets, or advertisements, that the Company may think desirable for the promotion of its objects. 8 To undertake and execute any charitable trust which may be deemed necessary or convenient for any of the objects of the Company. | £801,771
