# Television `AR206`

Television is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](/data/ukcat/AR) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

375 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(television|video|TV)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 129 | 0.16%
£10k - £100k | 101 | 0.16%
£100k - £250k | 34 | 0.18%
£250k - £500k | 29 | 0.32%
£500k - £1m | 20 | 0.35%
£1m - £10m | 37 | 0.47%
Over £10m | 8 | 0.43%
Total | 358 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 275 | 0.16%
oscr | 62 | 0.24%
ccni | 38 | 0.53%
Total | 375 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Britain</strong> [Charity number: [SC046952](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046952)]<br>The objects ('the Objects') of the Charity are to advance the Christian religion as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in particular but not exclusively by: 3 .1 producing audio and video material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing, and distributing Bible literature. 3 .2 providing services and facilities for members of the Worldwide Order of Special Full-time Servants of Jehovah's Witnesses ('the Order') and such other support as deemed appropriate from time to time. 3.3 purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship, as well as for other purposes to support the Charity's objects. 3.4 engage in acts of charity, mercy, and humanitarian aid. and 3.5 distributing funds and goods to other entities that have similar aims. Nothing in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Charity shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £130,210,285
<strong>THE ASSOCIATED BOARD OF THE ROYAL SCHOOLS OF MUSIC</strong> [Charity number: [292182](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292182)]<br>ABRSM motivates musical achievement through internationally recognised examination and assessment of students, professional development of teachers and provision of published resources and online learning via its websites, apps and audio and video resources. ABRSM makes significant donations towards music education each year including scholarships to the four Royal Schools of Music. | £42,498,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £26,248,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL FILM AND TELEVISION SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [313429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313429)]<br>Training and education for film, television, games and the creative industries | £19,248,407
<strong>The National Film and Television School</strong> [Charity number: [SC048472](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048472)]<br>4.1 The objects for which the School is established are: 4.1.1 To promote and provide for the advancement of education of the public and in this connection to carry on a School in Great Britain for the education and training of persons concerned in the making of films, television and new media. 4.1.2 To provide instruction in the art and science of making cinematograph and other films. 4.1.3 To provide instruction in the art and science of making programmes for television. 4.1.4 To provide instruction in the art and science of new media.  | £19,248,047
<strong>SCREENSKILLS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1015324](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015324)]<br>We are the industry-led skills body for the UK?s screen-based creative industries, including film, high end and other television, VFX, animation and games.We work across the UK with employers, individuals, learning/training providers, trade associations, unions and government to ensure the screen industries have the skilled workforce they need. We identify training needs and help tackle them. | £17,861,212
<strong>Screenskills Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039556)]<br>3.1 To promote, advance and provide training and education for persons working or intending to work whether as employees or independent contractors in any sector including, but not limited to, the film, radio, television, video, digital media, photography, photographic processing, digital imaging, animation, computer games, publishing, facilities, advertising, fashion and textiles, and associated industries ('the Industry') and for the purposes of this clause 'facilities' shall mean specialist technical and support services to the creative media industry. 3.2 To promote advance and provide training and education to members of the public generally. | £17,861,212
<strong>THE BRITISH ACADEMY OF FILM AND TELEVISION ARTS</strong> [Charity number: [216726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216726)]<br>To support, develop and promote the art forms of the moving image, by identifying and rewarding excellence, inspiring pracitioners and benefitting the public. | £17,008,000
<strong>HALLE CONCERTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [223882](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223882)]<br>The Halle Concerts Society maintains and manages the Halle Orchestra. It promotes concerts by the Orchestra and other artists and ensembles in Manchester; presents concerts throughout the UK and overseas in association with local promoters, produces recordings and radio and television broadcasts and undertakes a full programme of educational and outreach work. | £9,325,000
<strong>GOVERNANCE MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1051780](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051780)]<br>Advancing the Christian religion through TV, radio, internet, publishing, seminars, one to one and small group counselling and teaching including church planting, training and equipping increasing all distribution platforms globally and the provision of training and equipping resources. | £8,444,734


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Family & Friends Of Hanna Street</strong> [Charity number: [NI102607](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102607)]<br>Hanna Street houses a residential home and facilities for individuals with learning disabilities – mainly young adults – in a supported living environment. It also offers respite facilities whereby young adults with learning disabilities, who live with their family, can come into the home for a few nights, or longer, to give their carers a much needed break. Needless to say this respite service is in constant use. The Family & Friends of Hanna Street is a small local charity which engages in fund raising to help enrich the residents daily lives and this has become even more necessary given the cutbacks everyone has experienced over the past few years. The fund raising activities consist mainly of bag packing in local supermarkets, coffee mornings and ballots and some of the things we have provided for the residents in the past are: - music therapy sessions, outings to various places of local interest, paying for carers to support residents when they go on holidays (they cannot go on their own), Christmas decorations, a large screen TV, specially adapted computers (reconditioned) and last year we turned a piece of waste ground just outside the home into a small garden and courtyard where the residents can enjoy the spring/summer/autumn sun – when we get it! As the title suggests the people who engage in fund raising are all family or friends of the residents | £3,900
<strong>ELIM TAMIL MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1138592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138592)]<br>Elim Tamil Ministries is a growing Tamil Pentecostal Movement in the United Kingdom, committed to preach the Gospel of the Grace of God to the Tamil community in the UK and around the world through our church ministries, television ministries, teaching ministries etc. We believe Salvation is by grace through faith alone, not as a result of good works, so that God alone gets the glory. | £37,176
<strong>MOUNTAIN OF FIRE AND MIRACLES MINISTRIES SHALOM ASSEMBLY</strong> [Charity number: [1163950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163950)]<br>Propagate Christianity through Christian meetings, seminars, conventions, crusades; theological education; evangelical training; counseling, sponsoring of programmes for the relief of neglected, poor and the elderly; publications distributions of books, audio, and video tapes. | £84,805
<strong>Child Evangelism Fellowship Of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI100984](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100984)]<br>Recruits and supports voluntary and remunerated teachers Promotes and supports training classes and courses to equip teachers Promote and support programmes for children’s Christian religious instruction Provide Christian religious instruction in schools, colleges and instructional centres Establish Christian religious instruction schemes both indoors and outdoors Establish summer camps etc. for Biblical instructional purposes Organise and encourage prayerful and financial support towards the work of CEF Publish, distribute and sell Christian literature and periodicals Operate, conduct, display, show and present films, theatrical productions, sound and television broadcasts for the purpose of Christian religious teaching and instruction to young people and the training of adults, including through the use of electronic communications Use such means, articles and things (including electronic communications) as are necessary for the furtherance of the principles of Christianity, particularly among children but also to any person or persons who may derive benefit from such teaching and to enable the general public to gain a better understanding of Christian Fellowship and Evangelism Provide an organisational system to guide and co-ordinate local CEF work Promote financial giving for the work of CEF in Ireland and worldwide Buy, lease, hire, property and to maintain and equip it for use or dispose of after use Borrow money if Board deems necessary and supportable Co-operate with other charities, voluntary bodies and statutory authorities and to exchange information and advice with them Establish or support any charitable trusts, associations or institutions formed for any of the charitable purposes included in the Objects Acquire, merge with or enter into any partnership or joint venture arrangement with any other charity Set aside income as a reserve against future expenditure but only in accordance with a written policy about reserves | £2,706,827
<strong>Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC046282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046282)]<br>a) To advance the prevention or relief of poverty by: i. Helping the needy (Support the supplies of needy to ex-prisoners, homeless and less privileged people) ii. Identify the needy through the local councils and charity Scotland iii. Contribution shall include materials and financing (Clothing and feeding) iv. All support shall be within Scotland Our poverty alleviation programme is grounded in our Christian faith and love. We provide practical support programme and projects to all communities and age groups through provision of food, clothes to the homeless, educational support and training to the youths, counselling and emotional support for the elderly and vulnerable b) To provide the advancement of Christian religion through: i. Propagation of Christianity through Christian meetings, seminars, conventions, crusades. theological education. evangelical training. counselling. sponsoring of programmes for the relief of neglected, poor and elderly. publication and distributions of books, audio and video tapes ii. Making places for Christian worship available to the public in local communities within Scotland for the furtherance of Christian faith and to encourage Christian way of life iii. To continuously engage in evangelism outreaches to encourage and inform the public of Christian teachings and principles, to encourage prayer and give Christian spiritual support  iv. Establishing MFM Worldwide Church centres across Scotland - Aberdeen, Dundee, Glasgow, Inverness, Edinburgh v. Resourcing and distribution of Gospel Tracts and Christian religious books vi. Evangelizing and clarification of Christian faith in line with Pentecostal /Apostolic faith.  vii. Extension of Christian faith and support through support programmes to all classes of citizens in local communities in Scotland.c) To provide the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation by:  i. Supporting families in mediation and conflict resolution, in line with Christian faith Further objects can be obtained from the  directly from the charity  | 
<strong>Tron Theatre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC012081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012081)]<br>2.1 The Company shall promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes primarily by:- 2.1.1 leasing, owning, constructing, managing and maintaining a theatre (or theatres). 2.1.2 encouraging and creating opportunities to create, produce, promote, stage and showcase performances, entertainment and exhibitions (whether theatre, musicals, drama, opera, dance, television, film, painting or any other form) for/to the public, and in doing so produce and promote local and Scottish work as well as presenting performances and productions from international companies and individuals whether in Glasgow or elsewhere (including touring nationally and internationally). 2.1.3 working with others in the sphere of arts and culture. 2.1.4 recognising the wider educational, community and social benefits that can be achieved through arts and culture activities and delivering and collaborating on such activities. and 2.1.5 providing opportunities for training in the study of arts and culture  | £1,831,970
<strong>ALTRINCHAM VIDEO SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [507682](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-507682)]<br>To promote the advancement and improvement of general education in relation to all aspects of cinematography and associated visual and auditory arts, crafts and skills and the public appreciation thereof in the district of Altrincham and elsewhere. | £1,246
<strong>Dundee Contemporary Arts Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC026631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC026631)]<br>To promote, maintain, improve and advance public education in contemporary arts and culture for the benefit of the community by the encouragement, support and promotion of the study, practice and knowledge of the visual arts (including but not limited to video and film) and other arts (including but not limited to sound recording, crafts, performance, broadcasting, publishing, literature, music, dance and song) by any means including but not limited to commissioning, galleries, printmaking workshops, displays, talks, research, discussion groups and exhibitions of all kinds as shall be deemed by the Company to be conducive to the objects specified above. | £2,252,711
<strong>THE ROB KNOX FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1135531](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135531)]<br>The mission of the Charity is to educate young people on citizenship (including respect, making correct decisions and awareness of street violence), and also to help young people develop skills in Arts, Film and Television. | £136
<strong>THE ASSOCIATED BOARD OF THE ROYAL SCHOOLS OF MUSIC</strong> [Charity number: [292182](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292182)]<br>ABRSM motivates musical achievement through internationally recognised examination and assessment of students, professional development of teachers and provision of published resources and online learning via its websites, apps and audio and video resources. ABRSM makes significant donations towards music education each year including scholarships to the four Royal Schools of Music. | £42,498,000
