# Literature `AR202`

Literature is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

6,597 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.26% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(literature|magazine|books?|publications|literacy|journals?|library)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,302 | 3.13%
£10k - £100k | 2,204 | 3.19%
£100k - £250k | 652 | 3.08%
£250k - £500k | 340 | 3.29%
£1m - £10m | 306 | 3.49%
£500k - £1m | 222 | 3.46%
Over £10m | 47 | 2.20%
Total | 6,073 | 3.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 5,290 | 3.10%
oscr | 905 | 3.68%
ccni | 402 | 5.58%
Total | 6,597 | 3.26%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £174,925,000
<strong>WATCH TOWER BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY OF BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1077961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077961)]<br>1. Provision of facilities to assist full time ministers. 2. Producing material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing Bible literature.3. Purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship.4. Humanitarian aid. 5. Distributing funds and goods to other entities with similar aims. | £100,899,361
<strong>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Britain</strong> [Charity number: [SC046952](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046952)]<br>The objects ('the Objects') of the Charity are to advance the Christian religion as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in particular but not exclusively by: 3 .1 producing audio and video material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing, and distributing Bible literature. 3 .2 providing services and facilities for members of the Worldwide Order of Special Full-time Servants of Jehovah's Witnesses ('the Order') and such other support as deemed appropriate from time to time. 3.3 purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship, as well as for other purposes to support the Charity's objects. 3.4 engage in acts of charity, mercy, and humanitarian aid. and 3.5 distributing funds and goods to other entities that have similar aims. Nothing in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Charity shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £100,899,361
<strong>TRINITY COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1137604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137604)]<br>Provision, along with the University, of education of the highest standard for some 1100 undergraduate and graduate students; maintaining a Chapel, extensive Library, and substantial buildings; promoting research by its Fellows and students; and making grants to others with similar objects.  Although situated in Cambridge, Trinity's members come from a very wide range of areas and backgrounds. | £97,250,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BLIND PEOPLE</strong> [Charity number: [226227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226227)]<br>RNIB is the UK's leading charity offering information, support and advice to over two million people with sight problems. Our work helps anyone with a sight problem - with braille, Talking Books, education and imaginative and practical solutions to everyday challenges.  We fight for equal rights for people with sight problems. Contact the Helpline on 0303 123 9999 or visit www.rnib.org.uk | £89,683,000
<strong>THE ROYAL COLLECTION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1016972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016972)]<br>To ensure the Royal Collection is subject to proper custodial control and is conserved to the highest possible standards.To ensure the Royal Collection can be seen by as many people as possible.To broaden access through the publication of books and exhibition catalogues and development of the on-line gallery.To make appropriate acquisitions when resources become available. | £84,343,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [SC040009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040009)]<br>The relief of poverty and sickness among those persons generally who are dependent upon or affected by addiction to narcotic drugs and other similar substances or compounds of possible potential or suspected danger to the individual and the community (hereinafter referred to as drugs).  (ii)	The relief of poverty and sickness among parents of children affected by dependence upon or addiction to drugs and among families, any members of which are dependent upon or affected by addiction to drugs.  (iii)	The education and training of the individual and the community at large and advancement of education and training in and research into the danger arising from the habitual or other use of drugs together with publication of literature relating to dependence upon or addiction to drugs and of the results of any such research.  (iv)	The prevention of dependence upon or addiction to drugs, the consultation, treatment and care of those suffering from, and rehabilitation of those relieved from, dependence upon or addiction to drugs PROVIDED ALWAYS that any such treatment as aforesaid shall be carried out only under the supervision of a duly qualified medical practitioner under the National Health Service and wherever there occurs any reference in this Deed to treatment such treatment shall be construed as so limited. | £80,609,000
<strong>BRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1092193](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092193)]<br>Funds and supports research, education, publications and other activities in the built environment for public benefit. Awards post graduate research scholarships and supports university chairs.Commissions, facilitate and supports carbon emission reduction projects and such other activities and services as are beneficial to the built environment. | £59,925,000
<strong>THE CHARTERED INSTITUTE OF PERSONNEL AND DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1079797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079797)]<br>The purpose of the CIPD is to champion better work and working lives by improving practices in people and organisational development.  To achieve this, the Institute pursues a wide range of activities including research, surveys, publications, advisory services, training courses, conferences, contributions to public policy and extensive media coverage. | £45,013,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £41,387,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THURMASTON COMMUNITY SOCIAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [521513](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521513)]<br>CommunityCentre & Library, serving multi-ethic community. Activities hub for Co-op Women Guild, Art & Over 70s clubs, dance, stage, tap, keep fit, Martial Arts classes. Popular venue for engagements, weddings, christenings, birthday parties. Largest operational stage in area used for and cinema shows, charity fund raising events, church services and other social events for the community. | £24,887
<strong>FRIENDS OF LAMBETH PALACE LIBRARY</strong> [Charity number: [313023](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313023)]<br>Promotes the interests of Lambeth Palace Library by helping in the acquisition of books and manuscripts and in any other suitable way. | £114,424
<strong>HARRIS FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY AND MUSEUM ENDOWMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [526078](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-526078)]<br>Provide Additions For The Harris Reference Library and Museum | £20,910
<strong>THE INTERNATIONAL GUILD OF KNOT TYERS</strong> [Charity number: [802153](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802153)]<br>We promote and teach the skills-craft of knotting and associated crafts to members of the public (retired groups -WI, youth groups-scouts, guides, army/sea cadets). We hold a library of knot books for reference, for public use.  We publish (quarterly) a knotting magazine. We maintain a website including a forum for information exhange including tutorials. | £40,576
<strong>'THE GLOBE' COMMUNITY LIBRARY</strong> [Charity number: [1171473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171473)]<br>The charity provides a community library service and information hub for the benefits of the local community and provides a venue for facilitating community activity. | £15,462
<strong>Tanzania Christian Farm Development Trust (NI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100160](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100160)]<br>For realisation of the above prescribed objectives, the Trust shall utilise every possible means consistent with the law, and particularly it shall: Elevate and develop the economic condition and welfare of the people by training and increasing their knowledge and skills Introduce and develop the production of good seed, animal husbandry, dairy produce and foodstuffs Develop modern farming activities Introduce and develop crop farming skills programmes Purchase, operate and maintain machines for processing agricultural products Develop vocational training workshops Encourage programmes of discipleship and standards of behaviour which are in accord with the Christian Faith Educate, train and equip persons pledged to the furtherance of the objectives Manage a Children's Home to offer orphaned children or those with complex family situations a safe and caring home Co-operate with charities, voluntary bodies and statutory authorities operating in furtherance of the Objects or similar charitable purposes and exchange information and advice with them Establish training centres or other health, educational, social or economic establishments otherwise support, promote or administer the said establishments Seek help from Churches, Christian organisations, scholars, businessmen and other who prove to be willing to help effectively Encourage Christians to volunteer their services either in person or by donating money to the Trust Utilise the press and other media, i.e. radio, television, newspapers, magazines, books and other publications to reach Christians and other persons Make and adopt action plans in the light of priorities that are decided upon by the Trust Carry out scientific studies in order to identify problems facing people and thus find the most appropriate solutions for them. | £198,610
<strong>MATAKIRI TUMAINI TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1204161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204161)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THOSE LIVING IN THE MATAKIRI WARD IN KENYA BY PROVIDING AND ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR VOCATIONAL AND SCHOOL EDUCATION (INCLUDING BY PROVIDING SCHOLARSHIPS) AND TO PROVIDE LITERACY AND IT LITERACY SKILLS TRAINING TO THE UNPAID CARERS LIVING WITHIN THE MATAKIRI WARD. | 
<strong>HBS SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053770](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053770)]<br>Purposes 4 The organisation’s purposes are: a) The objects of the organisation shall be to relieve sickness, infirmity, handicap and old age amongst persons living in the area served by providing a local broadcasting service for hospitals, residential homes, nursing homes for the elderly and other similar establishments. b) For this purpose, the organisation shall maintain a central broadcasting facility. c) For the avoidance of doubt, in the context of the following clauses, words importing the masculine shall be deemed to include the feminine and words importing the singular shall be deemed to include the plural and vice versa. d) “In pursuance of these objects (but not otherwise) the organisation shall have the following powers.’ i. Engage and pay fees to professional and technical advisers/consultants to assist in the work of the organisation. ii. Bring together in conference and work in liaison with representatives of voluntary organisations, government departments, local and other statutory authorities and individuals. iii. Take out membership of such organisations as are considered to be in the interests of and compatible with the objects of the organisation. iv. Promote and carry out or assist in promoting or carrying out research, surveys and investigations and where, considered appropriate, publish the results. Page 3 of 25 v. Arrange and provide for or join in arranging and providing for the holding of exhibitions, meetings, lectures, classes, seminars, training courses, Broadcasting and Public Address. vi. Collect and disseminate information on all matters affecting the objects and exchange such information with other bodies having similar objects whether in this country or overseas. vii. Cause to be prepared and printed or otherwise reproduced and circulated, free of charge, or for payment, such papers, books, periodicals, pamphlets or other documents or films or recorded tapes (whether audio or visual or both) as shall further the objects. viii. Purchase, take on lease or exchange, hire or otherwise acquire any property and any rights and privileges considered appropriate for the promotion of the objects and construct, maintain and alter any buildings considered appropriate for the work of the organisation. ix. Make regulations for the management of any property which may be so acquired. x. Sell, let, grant securities over, dispose of or turn to account all or any of the property or assets of the organisation. xi. Borrow or raise money for the objects and accept gifts on such terms and on such security as shall be deemed to be appropriate. xii. Raise funds and invite and receive contributions from any person or persons by way of subscription or otherwise. xiii. Invest the funds of the organisation not immediately required for the objects in or upon such investments, securities or property as may be though fit, subject nevertheless to such conditions (if any) as may at the time be imposed or required by law and xiv. Do all such other lawful things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of the objects.” | 
<strong>MANCHESTER CITY OF LITERATURE</strong> [Charity number: [1189456](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189456)]<br>Our vision is to create an innovative, distinctive, equitable, globally connected city of reading and writing. We want Manchester to be a city where diverse voices are celebrated, creative talent is nurtured and where literary activity changes lives. We do this by uniting the collective strength and voice of writers and all those involved in literary activities across Manchester. | £285,053
<strong>CITY GATE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1190694](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190694)]<br>To advance the Christian Faith in the United Kingdom mainly but not exclusively for the benefit of the public by producing and distributing Christian literature, holding of lectures and seminars to enlightens others about the Christian religion, providing financial assistance and other charitable forms of assistance to individuals and organisations. | £221,898
