# Radio `AR205`

Radio is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

438 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.22% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(radio|hospital broadcasting)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 222 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 117 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 36 | 0.16%
£250k - £500k | 19 | 0.18%
£500k - £1m | 12 | 0.18%
£1m - £10m | 11 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.23%
Total | 422 | 0.22%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 319 | 0.19%
oscr | 94 | 0.38%
ccni | 25 | 0.35%
Total | 438 | 0.22%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Screenskills Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039556)]<br>3.1 To promote, advance and provide training and education for persons working or intending to work whether as employees or independent contractors in any sector including, but not limited to, the film, radio, television, video, digital media, photography, photographic processing, digital imaging, animation, computer games, publishing, facilities, advertising, fashion and textiles, and associated industries ('the Industry') and for the purposes of this clause 'facilities' shall mean specialist technical and support services to the creative media industry. 3.2 To promote advance and provide training and education to members of the public generally. | £17,450,415
<strong>BAUER RADIO'S CASH FOR KIDS CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [1122062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122062)]<br>Bauer Media's Cash for Kids is a grant-giving national charity with regional teams operating in 23 locations across England, Wales, Northern Ireland and Scotland.  Our mission is to improve the lives of disadvantaged children who are affected by poverty, illness, neglect or have additional needs. | £15,249,185
<strong>PREMIER CHRISTIAN MEDIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [287610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287610)]<br>Promotion of the Christian religion through radio broadcast, magazine publication, online activity and events. Support of all those in need through a Lifeline telephone service. Encouragement and support for the church in the use of new media. Campaigning on single-issues which are of concern to Christians and the church. | £11,176,707
<strong>HALLE CONCERTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [223882](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223882)]<br>The Halle Concerts Society maintains and manages the Halle Orchestra. It promotes concerts by the Orchestra and other artists and ensembles in Manchester; presents concerts throughout the UK and overseas in association with local promoters, produces recordings and radio and television broadcasts and undertakes a full programme of educational and outreach work. | £10,869,000
<strong>Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC010702](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010702)]<br>The objects for which the Society is established are:- (1) To promote the study, practice and knowledge of music in Scotland and other musical, literary, artistic, cultural and educational purposes connected therewith, and for these purposes to establish, maintain and manage an orchestra or orchestras which shall be a national orchestra or orchestras for the whole of Scotland and may represent Scotland in other countries. (2) To organise, manage and provide or assist in organising, managing and providing orchestral, instrumental, vocal and choral concerts and performances, meetings, lectures, study circles and similar activities connected with music in any part of the world, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (3) To establish and provide for the convenience of audiences and persons attending concerts, performances, meetings, lectures and other activities of the Society, restaurants, refreshment rooms, lounges and other similar facilities, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (4) To make use of cinema, radio, television, gramophone and any other device or invention relating to production or reproduction of music in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. | £10,642,732
<strong>GOVERNANCE MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1051780](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051780)]<br>Advancing the Christian religion through TV, radio, internet, publishing, seminars, one to one and small group counselling and teaching including church planting, training and equipping increasing all distribution platforms globally and the provision of training and equipping resources. | £7,803,317
<strong>Bauer Radio's Cash for Kids Charities (Scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC041421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041421)]<br>The objects of the Company will be such charitable purposes as the trustees from time to time think fit, and in particular the relief of those in need by virtue of their youth by the provision of charitable support to sick or underprivileged children in Scotland ('the Objects'). | £4,520,665
<strong>THE THOMSON FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [313750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313750)]<br>Primary activities are concerned with the training of television, radio, newspaper, magazine and news agency personnel; the encouragement of good management practices; technical assistance in print and broadcasting; and help and advice in the development of new outlets for journalists and broadcasters, including the internet. | £3,310,542
<strong>AMANA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1093401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093401)]<br>The charity continues to provide ongoing training courses, book promotions, free Bible distribution, radio broadcasts, conferences, public seminars and campus outreach programmes. These events are held at Bower House, Woodland Camp, a bookshop in London and in hired facilities if necessary. | £3,059,645
<strong>Radio Clyde Cash for Kids</strong> [Charity number: [SC003334](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003334)]<br>The objects of the Company are: (a) the relief of children in need by reason of ill-health, disability or special needs, financial hardship or other disadvantage who are resident or temporarily located within the geographical areas to which Radio Clyde broadcasts particularly at Christmas. and (b) to promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions and in such proportions and manner as the Trustees shall think fit. | £2,010,701


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Dungannon Sub Aqua Club/ Search And Recovery</strong> [Charity number: [NI102776](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102776)]<br>Our club meets on a Wednesday night and open water dives take place at the weekends. Our club meets with other dive clubs in the country to take search and recovery exercises and also other social events. The clubs ethos is to make diving affordable to everyone regardless of gender, age, sexual orientation, ethnicity or financial restraints. We keep our club fees affordable to all members and this is regularly reviewed, we also provide diving equipment to all members some of who may not be in the position to purchase expensive dive equipment. Our club is affiliated to the Irish Underwater Council (CFT) this enables our members to access courses which have internationally recognised qualifications. Our members can avail of first aid, child protection, archaeology, VHF radio and boat handling courses all of which are also accredited world wide. Our club is governed by CFT and we activity involved with their work through the Nautical Archaeology Society which is responsible for preserving and logging historical underwater sites, protecting the marine environment and coastal area. We have been an active club for 29 years and promote our sport actively within our community and beyond. We take members from 10 year of age and upwards. We run programmes specifically aimed at youth groups from socially and financially deprived backgrounds this enables these groups to partake in our sport allowing them to approve fitness, social skills and education. Our members contribute to sea search Ireland which is actively involved in the logging and identification of all marine life (fish, whale, dolphin, jellyfish and crustacean) these logs are passed on to the Irish, British and European Parliaments to inform policy and preserve, protect marine life. | £8,978
<strong>Celtic Media Festival Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC028708](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028708)]<br>In particular, the Company is established to advance public education by the promotion and the encouragement of understanding and knowledge of film, television, video, radio, multimedia and related media as are relevant to the languages and cultures of Scotland, the Republic of Ireland, Northern Ireland, Wales, Brittany, Cornwall, the Isle of Man and other Celtic language countries or regions by such means and in such manner as may be appropriate for the achievement of such Object. | £287,597
<strong>Omagh Community Youth Choir</strong> [Charity number: [NI101955](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101955)]<br>Omagh Community Youth choir comprises male and female members who are 16-21 years and are are from all sections of the local community, and are representative of all the local post primary schools. The choir uses choral music to promote peace and reconciliation through music. The choir performs at local, national and international events, spreading this message of peace and reconciliation.They are also available to aid and support through their performances, fundraising events for other community groups and individuals with likeminded values. The choir performs at approximately 15-20 events per calendar year and also under take tours on an international level. Trips to date have included England, Switzerland, and the USA on several occasions. Choir members are auditioned each year on a basis of singing ability and must have interests in community development. Choir members are limited to numbers under 40 due to best practice and safety concerns. Rehearsals are held on a regular fortnightly basis which last for 2 1/2 hr sessions. They are conducted by adults whom have Masters level music qualifications and vast performance and teaching experience. The rehearsals are geared to learning repertoire for public performances, and are interspersed with seminars and talks about community development and leadership. The choir also makes recordings, radio and television appearances along with their live concert performances. All leadership in the choir works on a voluntary level, donating their time and skills for free. The choir does not perform on a fee basis, but instead relies on donations to cover transport, food, and running costs. A parents committee is installed to help aid this and meets monthly to discuss and plan events such as table quiz's etc. All fundraising is aimed at providing a benefit in return to the contributor, and also results in a platform for the parents working together in the community for the benefit of their young people. | £6,261
<strong>LONDON HUAYU</strong> [Charity number: [1117147](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117147)]<br>We make radio programmes to serve the Chinese community and people interested in China and Chinese language / culture. We provide services to community and other organisations to promote their work and help get their message out to the Chinese community. We train volunteers in radio production skills and other skills necessary to run the charity | 
<strong>HOSPITAL BROADCASTING SERVICES (HULL AND EAST RIDING)</strong> [Charity number: [257949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257949)]<br>Hospital broadcasting service for Hull & East Yorkshire | 
<strong>Tell Romania</strong> [Charity number: [NI105779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105779)]<br>Advancement of the Christian Religion Through the Charity, Dr Hamilton Moore (Trustee) provides teaching in Emanuel University and preaching in village Churches, directly advancing the Christian religion. The Charity also provides funding and support to Church projects that benefit the Christian Religion and is involved in Christian radio broadcasts. The ministry has also expanded to teaching and providing pastoral support for Emanuel Hospice Home Care team, which provides loving care for terminally ill children and adults. Providing Humanitarian Aid Through donations and fundraising, the Charity provides vital medical equipment and dental equipment to many hospitals, Bethesda Medical Centre and to Felix Orphan Community. The Charity also provides consumables to Emanuel Hospice and humanitarian aid for Roma communities. The Charity also works in partnership with Child Life Romania assisting in the support of a Child Life Specialist to work in the neonatal unit of the maternity hospital in Oradea. Through donations and funding the Charity also supplies furniture, bedding and recreational equipment for Racatau Retreat Centre, Betel Baptist Church, Cluj, and support for Preventis Drug Addiction Centre, Cluj, Ichobed Centre in Suceava and Casa Grace Ministry. The Charity is preparing for the departure of a 45ft lorry leaving in October 2016 carrying medical equipment, school equipment and clothing for those who benefit from its purpose. The charity also helps to fund parcels of aid and food for terminally ill patients and has provided over £6,000 worth of funding for a feeding program for these people who would not be able to fund this themselves.Through donations, Tell Romania is also supporting the bone marrow treatment of a patient through 2016 and 2017 who would be unable to survive without this assistance. | £112,509
<strong>ARFON HOSPITALS BROADCASTING SERVICE (GWASANAETH DARLLEDU YSBYTAI ARFON)</strong> [Charity number: [506183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506183)]<br>Providing a free radio transmission service to patients within Ysbyty Gwynedd. Providing streaming of the radio service online available for anyone to listen to. | £7,812
<strong>WEST KENT COMMUNITY RADIO</strong> [Charity number: [1180738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180738)]<br>Provision of a local community broadcasting service for people living in Tunbridge Wells, Tonbridge, Pembury, Sevenoaks, and surrounding areas of West Kent, using FM radio, digital radio, online and through social media. | £26,074
<strong>NOTTINGHAM HOSPITALS RADIO</strong> [Charity number: [503781](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-503781)]<br>Broadcast radio to patients of Nottingham City Hospital and the Queens Medical Centre | £8,422
<strong>REFUGEE RADIO</strong> [Charity number: [1133554](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133554)]<br>Refugee Radio runs a range of community projects to promote education, racial harmony and social cohesion. These include a weekly mental health support group for refugees and migrants with PTSD and depression. We also run a casework advice service for benefits, education, housing and health. The project was founded around a radio programme and events to enable refugee voices to be heard. | £219,519
