# Film `AR201`

Film is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

1,112 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.55% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(films?|cinema)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 360 | 0.51%
£10k - £100k | 412 | 0.59%
£100k - £250k | 114 | 0.51%
£250k - £500k | 65 | 0.59%
£500k - £1m | 44 | 0.63%
£1m - £10m | 64 | 0.70%
Over £10m | 13 | 0.58%
Total | 1,072 | 0.55%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 870 | 0.51%
oscr | 167 | 0.67%
ccni | 75 | 1.07%
Total | 1,112 | 0.55%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [224223](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-224223)]<br>The National Theatre is central to the creative life of the UK. In its three theatres on the South Bank in London it presents new plays and classics from the world repertoire. It extends its reach through live broadcasts into cinema, UK and International tours and deepens audience engagement through its education programme. It looks after the wider health of theatre through R&D at the NT Studio. | £128,700,000
<strong>THE BRITISH FILM INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [287780](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287780)]<br>The BFI is the lead organisation for film in the UK.  Our mission is to ensure that film is central to our cultural life, in particular by supporting and nurturing the next generation of filmmakers and audiences. | £128,072,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £32,273,000
<strong>THE BRITISH ACADEMY OF FILM AND TELEVISION ARTS</strong> [Charity number: [216726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216726)]<br>To support, develop and promote the art forms of the moving image, by identifying and rewarding excellence, inspiring pracitioners and benefitting the public. | £29,313,000
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £28,804,714
<strong>The National Film and Television School</strong> [Charity number: [SC048472](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048472)]<br>4.1 The objects for which the School is established are: 4.1.1 To promote and provide for the advancement of education of the public and in this connection to carry on a School in Great Britain for the education and training of persons concerned in the making of films, television and new media. 4.1.2 To provide instruction in the art and science of making cinematograph and other films. 4.1.3 To provide instruction in the art and science of making programmes for television. 4.1.4 To provide instruction in the art and science of new media.  | £25,469,413
<strong>THE NATIONAL FILM AND TELEVISION SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [313429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313429)]<br>Training and education for film, television, games and the creative industries | £25,007,413
<strong>NATIONAL LIBRARY OF WALES</strong> [Charity number: [525775](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-525775)]<br>Founded by Royal Charter in 1907, NLW is one of the legal deposit libraries of the UK and has benefited from this status since 1911. Through this privilege, by purchase, donation or legacy it has built up a significant collection specialising in Wales, the Welsh and the other Celtic peoples that includes a wide range of media: books, records, maps, pictures, films & for the benefit of the public. | £22,330,000
<strong>Screenskills Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039556)]<br>3.1 To promote, advance and provide training and education for persons working or intending to work whether as employees or independent contractors in any sector including, but not limited to, the film, radio, television, video, digital media, photography, photographic processing, digital imaging, animation, computer games, publishing, facilities, advertising, fashion and textiles, and associated industries ('the Industry') and for the purposes of this clause 'facilities' shall mean specialist technical and support services to the creative media industry. 3.2 To promote advance and provide training and education to members of the public generally. | £17,450,415
<strong>SCREENSKILLS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1015324](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015324)]<br>We are the industry-led skills body for the UK?s screen-based creative industries, including film, high end and other television, VFX, animation and games.We work across the UK with employers, individuals, learning/training providers, trade associations, unions and government to ensure the screen industries have the skilled workforce they need. We identify training needs and help tackle them. | £17,450,415


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CALVARY MINISTRIES (CAPRO MISSIONS)</strong> [Charity number: [1097006](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097006)]<br>IN THE UK/WORLD, WE  MAKE CHRIST KNOWN VIA CROSS-CULTURAL MISSIONS, INTERNET EVANGELISM, SOCIAL MEDIA, FILMS, BIBLES, CDS, LITERATURE, DVDS,BOOKS, TRACTS, ETC. WE ARE #1 IN TRACT EVANGELISM IN THE OPEN AIR, HOSPITALS, PRISONS, ETC. ABROAD, CALVARY CHARITY NGO SUPPORTS PRISONS, ORPHANAGE HOMES, DEAF & DUMB & DISABLED PERSONS HOMES, LEPROSY MISSIONS, BLIND INSTITUTES, HOSPITALS, REFUGEE CAMPS, ETC. | £5,218
<strong>Greater Shantallow Community Arts</strong> [Charity number: [NI104604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104604)]<br>Founded in 1999 GSCA is a community arts organisation, based in the Outer North Area of Derry that aims to provide direct access to the arts and promote good relations and cultural awareness within disadvantaged communities. GSCA also seeks to bring the arts and cultural activity to the heart of areas of significant marginalisation and deprivation and address complex social issues such as social exclusion, isolation, lack of opportunity and poverty. GSCA aims to enrich lives, promote artists and the arts and provide opportunity for hands-on experience of creative activity especially within areas experiencing high levels of multiple disadvantage and marginalisation. GSCA utilises a wide range of art forms including; drama, music, digital arts, dance, film and carnival and works through facilitated exploration to promote early intervention, understanding, acceptance and trust. GSCA is committed to equality regardless of cultural background, age, disability, sexual orientation or economic status. | £499,170
<strong>BALSALL AND BERKSWELL JUBILEE PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1175832](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175832)]<br>The charity manages a community space for the use of residents of the Balsall Common and Berkswell parish councils and surrounding districts. We provide some activities ourselves such as community events, community cinema, food share cafe, short mat bowls and table tennis. We also hire out the space for community activities which include dance, exercise, education and parties | £16,076
<strong>Linlithgow Film Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC005492](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005492)]<br>To advance the education of the public in the understanding and appreciation of the arts, particularly the art of film and allied visual techniques. | £2,298
<strong>EDMUND PLOWDEN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1208525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208525)]<br>(1) TO ASSIST IN AND PROMOTE THE STUDY OF LAW AND ITS PRINCIPLES BY, AMONGST OTHER MEANS, COMPARISON WITH AND REFERENCE TO THE LAWS AND SYSTEMS OF LAW OBTAINING IN DIFFERENT COUNTRIES, PUBLIC INTERNATIONAL LAW AND INTERNATIONAL TREATIES, CANON LAW, JURISPRUDENCE AND THE LAW OF NATURE, AND ETHICAL PRINCIPLES AND CRITERIA.FOR THIS PURPOSE (INTER ALIA) TO:(A) PUBLISH AND CONTRIBUTE TO THE PUBLICATION OF LEGAL AND OTHER PERIODICALS AND PUBLICATIONS DEALING WITH SUCH MATTERS.(B) CONDUCT RESEARCH AND EXCHANGE OF RELEVANT INFORMATION WITH LEARNED BODIES IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND OTHER COUNTRIES AND WITH INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AND TO COLLATE SUCH INFORMATION.(C) TO ARRANGE AND, WHERE APPROPRIATE, DISSEMINATE LECTURES, BROADCASTS AND TELEVISION TALKS, EXHIBITIONS, FILMS, RECORDINGS, SEMINARS AND STUDY CONFERENCES.(2) FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO FURTHER SUCH OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSES ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF ENGLAND AND WALES AS THE TRUSTEES IN THEIR ABSOLUTE DISCRETION DETERMINE | £984
<strong>REGENT'S PARK COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1113867](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113867)]<br>Our aim is to allow people, regardless of race ,religion or sexual persuasion, to hire our hall at a reasonable rent, for music dancing and their own activities. W e have a licence for music, dance, films, ect. The hall holds a maximum of forty people . | £17,254
<strong>Scottish Youth Film Foundation (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC047612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047612)]<br>4.	The organisation’s main purpose is: 4.1	The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science We aim to promote the screen arts amongst Scotland’s young people, particularly those who are disadvantaged. We will work to promote the screen industries as a potential career path for Scotland’s young people, particularly those who are disadvantaged. We will do this by offering opportunities for young people from across Scotland to take part in film projects, workshops, talks and screenings at no cost to them. Young people are defined for the purposes of the Scottish Youth Film Foundation as aged 25 years old and younger and the services and benefits provided by the charity will be predominately targeted at this age range. Annually hold a Festival which will celebrate the best films made in Scotland by young people and which will feature talks, workshops, screenings and an Award Ceremony. We will maintain and update a website which will highlight pathways to careers and opportunities for Scotland’s young people in the screen arts and industry. On occasion and as budgets dictate to give funding to young people and organisations serving young people that further the aims detailed here. | £204,751
<strong>CINEMAITALIAUK</strong> [Charity number: [1186403](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186403)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN THE KNOWLEDGE, UNDERSTANDING AND APPRECIATION OF THE ARTS, PARTICULARLY THE ART OF ITALIAN FILM BY THE ESTABLISHMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF A FILM SOCIETY. | £17,118
<strong>Esc Films</strong> [Charity number: [NI102123](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102123)]<br>ESC is an award-winning culture and arts education charity working with storytelling, drama and film in Northern Ireland. Our Vision: To create radical transformation among those most disadvantaged by society. Our Mission: To use drama and film to change lives, challenge perceptions, tackle social exclusion, stigma and discrimination. HOW IT WORKS: ESC reacts to the changing environment around it in NI. It is project-driven and responsive to need. Over the past 15 years ESC has grown from a community arts organisation working primarily in drama with young disadvantaged people, often on cross-community interfaces within Belfast into film-making with a wide range of marginalized and disadvantaged individuals. We produced a world first award-winning film, Mickey B, a modern adaptation of Shakespeare’s Macbeth made within NI’s maximum security prison, with prisoners as cast. This has now been translated into seven languages. We have maintained a strong focus on criminal justice and on mental health within our short film projects all of which are based around therapeutic and educational elements. ESC provides educational qualifications (ASDAN Expressive Arts and Community Volunteering awards) and both creative and therapeutic engagement to extremely disadvantaged and/or socially excluded people, in particular those who fall through the gaps in service provision within criminal justice and mental health. ESC values first-hand experience. It is non-judgmental and practices honesty, respect, trust and openness. ESC provides opportunities for disadvantaged or socially-excluded people to experience creative interventions through drama and film. The overall aim of the organisation is to encourage marginalised people to understand and transform their lives by turning their unique experiences into films and documentaries. We do this across a wide range of short film-making projects. | £75,209
<strong>Alchemy Film and Arts </strong> [Charity number: [SC042142](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042142)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to champion the development of the arts, predominantly but not exclusively in the Scottish Borders and beyond. We aim to engage the people of the Scottish Borders, in particular its young people, visitors to the region and its creative residents in high quality arts experiences, thus generating creative, cultural and economic benefit for the region. We aim to stimulate local talent, social and community cohesion, and engage people with the unique Borders landscape and heritage, thus enriching their quality of life, and in furtherance of those objects:  4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science in the Scottish Borders, predominantly but not exclusively, particularly by the practice, knowledge, understanding and appreciation of visual arts, music, literature, performance, film and crafts (hereinafter known as the arts) and not excluding other art forms as may be relevant.  4.2 To advance education through the arts and to promote, maintain and improve education through the arts.  4.3 To promote equality and diversity through the arts, and to increase the accessibility of the arts to the public throughout the region by providing facilities for the presentation and practice of the arts. | £319,353
