# Print media `AR204`

Print media is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](/data/ukcat/AR) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

557 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(newspaper|magazine)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 317 | 0.38%
£10k - £100k | 137 | 0.21%
£100k - £250k | 47 | 0.25%
£250k - £500k | 15 | 0.17%
£500k - £1m | 13 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 18 | 0.23%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.06%
Total | 548 | 0.29%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 486 | 0.29%
oscr | 37 | 0.15%
ccni | 34 | 0.49%
Total | 557 | 0.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PREMIER CHRISTIAN MEDIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [287610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287610)]<br>Promotion of the Christian religion through radio broadcast, magazine publication, online activity and events. Support of all those in need through a Lifeline telephone service. Encouragement and support for the church in the use of new media. Campaigning on single-issues which are of concern to Christians and the church. | £10,789,958
<strong>THE SOCIETY OF MISSIONARIES OF AFRICA (ALSO KNOWN AS THE WHITE FATHERS)</strong> [Charity number: [233302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-233302)]<br>The promotion of the religious and human development of the people of Africa; promotion of missionary vocation throughout the world; funding the recruiting and training of missionaries; missionary animation through our magazine & appeals in parishes; promotion of JPIC issues; the fostering of inter-religious encounter & dialogue; the care in retirement and/or sickness of our returned missionaries. | £4,161,265
<strong>ECHOES INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1173851](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173851)]<br>To act as a mission service agency & produce a monthly missionary magazine. To achieve this we publish news & information about cross cultural mission activity across the world & distribute unsolicited gifts to mission partners, provide pastoral care to our mission partners & seek to encourage interest in mission within the UK. | £4,144,216
<strong>ECHOES OF SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [234556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234556)]<br>To act as a mission service agency & produce a monthly missionary magazine.To achieve this we publish news & information about cross cultural mission activity across the world & distribute unsolicited gifts to mission workers, provide pastoral care to our mission workers & seek to encourage interst in mission within the UK. | £4,144,216
<strong>THE INSTITUTE OF MARINE ENGINEERING, SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY</strong> [Charity number: [212992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212992)]<br>IMarEST is the leading professional membership body and learned society for all marine professionals, with over 20,000 members worldwide. The Institute has a strong international presence with an extensive network of around 50 international branches, offers peer-reviewed journals and an industry-focused magazine, produces conferences and events, and enjoys non-governmental status at IMO. | £2,890,216
<strong>CENTRE FOR ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGY CHARITY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [265239](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265239)]<br>CAT seeks to inspire, inform and enable people to adopt sustainable technologies and practices. The Charity achieves its objectives by: promoting scenarios for a Zero Carbon Britian; providing education through school visits, short courses and postgraduate teaching; publishing a members' magazine; providing a free information service; operating a visitor centre; hosting external events. | £2,873,700
<strong>THE THOMSON FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [313750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313750)]<br>Primary activities are concerned with the training of television, radio, newspaper, magazine and news agency personnel; the encouragement of good management practices; technical assistance in print and broadcasting; and help and advice in the development of new outlets for journalists and broadcasters, including the internet. | £2,599,000
<strong>THE INSTITUTE FOR OPTIMUM NUTRITION</strong> [Charity number: [1013084](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1013084)]<br>Train nutritional therapists and provide advice on nutrition and wellbeing through our optimum nutrition clinics. The provision of continual professional development training  and training for the general public. The publication of quarterly Optimum Nutrition magazine (print and online) and monthly online newsletter to provide accessible information on nutrition, wellbeing and lifestyle. | £2,356,160
<strong>KENNETH COPELAND MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [326392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-326392)]<br>The provision of Christian teaching materials including books, audio/visual products, a monthly magazine, TV broadcasting, website downloads, a prayer phone-line and a specific Christian-based ministry to prisoners. | £1,967,707
<strong>BEST BEGINNINGS</strong> [Charity number: [1120054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120054)]<br>Best Beginnings creates and disseminates engaging, evidence-based resources including the Baby Buddy phone app, From Bump to Breastfeeding DVD, Small Wonders DVD, Baby Express Magazine and Maternal Mental Health films. These resources help to educate and empower parents and parents-to-be, increasing their confidence, knowledge and skills to give their children the best start in life. | £1,897,286


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PETERBOROUGH AND DISTRICT TALKING NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [280999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280999)]<br>Provides a weekly summary of items from the local weekly newspaper in a recorded digital format for the use of visually impaired listeners | £1,853
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARY AND ST FRANCIS, BARCOMBE</strong> [Charity number: [1159084](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159084)]<br>Regular public worship open to all. The provision of sacred space for personal prayer andcontemplation. Pastoral work including visiting the sick and the bereaved. Teaching ofChristianity through sermons, courses and small groups.  Promotion of Christianity by producing a monthly Parish Magazine delivered free of charge. | £143,179
<strong>WOOD DALLING VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [304123](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-304123)]<br>Fetes, Quizz Nights, Race Nights, Film nights,Coffee mornings, Hall lettings and Recycling glass and newspaper.WiFi installation for student & business use | £20,369
<strong>SLEAFORD AND DISTRICT TALKING NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [513973](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513973)]<br>Provide weekly digital recording of local news for visually impaired. | £412
<strong>MIME ACTION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1052358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052358)]<br>The UK's only umbrella organisation for physical theatre and visual performance.  It acts to: advocate, develop and strengthen new and emerging practice; promote exchange of information, via the Total Theatre Awards and in association with Total Theatre magazine ; encourage debate and develop critical language; develop training and education opportunities. | 
<strong>PENDLE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [222933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222933)]<br>Social activities for over 55 years e.g. dancing, dominoes, whist, bridge, Luncheon Club, Snooker. Also facilities for other local groups e.g. Probus, Girl Guides, Scouts, Age Concern, Camcorder Club, Talking Newspaper et al | £18,152
<strong>Nipr: The National Collection Of Northern Ireland Publications</strong> [Charity number: [NI102555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102555)]<br>NIPR operates as a voluntary scheme, and runs in close collaboration with publishers, writers, printers and others involved in Northern Ireland publishing. NIPR currently receives donated copies of material from over 600 groups and individuals. Each book, journal, magazine, leaflet and government document donated to NIPR is described, catalogued and made available for reference. NIPR also receives and stores electronic copies of some publications. The catalogue is available on the NIPR website at http://www.nibooks.org. A quarterly list of all new acquisitions is distributed electronically and posted on the website. The NIPR Manager maintains close links with publishers, local history groups and other community groups to maintain awareness of its role and services. The community engagement programme includes meetings with local history groups, creative writing groups, conferences, book fairs, arts festivals, and publishing and literary events to strengthen links with those producing publications; NIPR also meets with groups visiting the Linen Hall Library. The subject and format of the NIPR collection is wide and varied, covering the full range of publications by authors, poets, historians, local community and cultural groups, clubs and societies, government departments, educational establishments, churches and faith groups, businesses, and other organisations. The collection is promoted through the NIPR website and social media, and through the Linen Hall Library and Libraries NI. As one of NIPR’s aims is to preserve the publications into the future, the NIPR item is used when that item is not available to purchase, borrow or consult elsewhere. As the collection is in secure storage at the Linen Hall Library, it cannot be browsed on the shelves. Access to the collection is provided through an online public access catalogue at www.nibooks.org. Items identified in the catalogue are consulted through the Irish and Local Studies Department of the Linen Hall Library. | £19,000
<strong>HYNDBURN DISTRICT TALKING NEWSPAPER</strong> [Charity number: [1113241](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113241)]<br>Provision of recorded readings of local newspaper and magazines for blind, partially sighted and disabled persons. | £149
<strong>LYTE HOUSE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [203601](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-203601)]<br>Provide affordable accommodation for people in housing need. Provide room for a Brixham Mission Community office and for the printing of parish magazine. Provide rooms to let at affordable rates to small groups. | £4,603
<strong>GRACE'S GUIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1154342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154342)]<br>Educational charity and leading source of information on industry and manufacturing  from the start of the Industrial Revolution to the present time. The website is 130,000 pages and 200,000 images on early companies, their products and the people who designed and built them. 100 years of the weekly magazine The Engineer is available for the years 1856-1956. | £8,266
