# Media `AR203`

Media is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Media and publishing subcategory.

414 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.20% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(broadcast(s|ing)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 170 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 113 | 0.16%
£100k - £250k | 31 | 0.15%
£250k - £500k | 13 | 0.13%
£500k - £1m | 9 | 0.14%
£1m - £10m | 17 | 0.19%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.47%
Total | 363 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 316 | 0.18%
oscr | 76 | 0.31%
ccni | 22 | 0.31%
Total | 414 | 0.20%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Open University</strong> [Charity number: [SC038302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038302)]<br>The objects of the University shall be the advancement and dissemination of learning and knowledge by teaching and research by a diversity of means such as broadcasting and technological devices appropriate to higher education, by correspondence tuition, residential courses and seminars and in other relevant ways, and shall be to provide education of University and professional standards for its students and to promote the educational well-being of the community generally. | £582,300,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [224223](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-224223)]<br>The National Theatre is central to the creative life of the UK. In its three theatres on the South Bank in London it presents new plays and classics from the world repertoire. It extends its reach through live broadcasts into cinema, UK and International tours and deepens audience engagement through its education programme. It looks after the wider health of theatre through R&D at the NT Studio. | £121,400,000
<strong>DISASTERS EMERGENCY COMMITTEE</strong> [Charity number: [1062638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062638)]<br>DEC brings together 15 of the UK's leading humanitarian agencies. At times of major humanitarian crisis, DEC works with its members, broadcast and other partners to launch a fundraising appeal to the UK public. The proceeds of each appeal are distributed to DEC's member agencies to enable them to deliver humanitarian programmes to help those most affected. | £32,906,000
<strong>THE LONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [232391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232391)]<br>The principal activity of the LSO is the provision of a Symphony Orchestra for high quality musical performances, broadcasting and recordings and supporting this work with a music education programme designed to reach a wide range of people. | £21,518,000
<strong>Broadcasting Support Services (subject to insolvency proceedings)</strong> [Charity number: [SC040511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040511)]<br>To advance the education of the public by all exclusively charitable means. To advise and facilitate charities on all matters relating to the administration of charities public appeals and any other matters. to facilitate charities making better use of the resources available to them. To educate train and rehabilitate persons who through their social or economic circumstances are in need of such facilities and unable to gain employment or wish to further their education. | £18,242,019
<strong>BROADCASTING SUPPORT SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [282264](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-282264)]<br>BSS empowers people to take action to improve their lives, by providing access to impartial information and advice. Services available include contact centres, incorporating helplines providing support and guidance; digital media, including web design and development and other forms of online communication such as SMS and web chat; and distribution and fulfilment of hard copy information material. | £18,242,019
<strong>WELSH NATIONAL OPERA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [221538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221538)]<br>The company engages in all aspects of staging opera and educational activity together with a wide range of related activities including concerts, broadcasts, recordings and publications. | £18,166,000
<strong>PREMIER CHRISTIAN MEDIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [287610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287610)]<br>Promotion of the Christian religion through radio broadcast, magazine publication, online activity and events. Support of all those in need through a Lifeline telephone service. Encouragement and support for the church in the use of new media. Campaigning on single-issues which are of concern to Christians and the church. | £11,176,707
<strong>HALLE CONCERTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [223882](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223882)]<br>The Halle Concerts Society maintains and manages the Halle Orchestra. It promotes concerts by the Orchestra and other artists and ensembles in Manchester; presents concerts throughout the UK and overseas in association with local promoters, produces recordings and radio and television broadcasts and undertakes a full programme of educational and outreach work. | £10,869,000
<strong>CITY OF BIRMINGHAM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [506276](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506276)]<br>Promoting concerts in Birmingham. Taking part in concerts at other venues in the UK and around the world. Broadcasting and recording work. Extensive education programme. Running 3 unpaid professional choruses and an auditioned youth choir in partnership with Birmingham Music Services. Management of CBSO Centre, the Orchestra's administration and rehearsal home and medium sized performance venue. | £10,084,311


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PREMIER CHRISTIAN MEDIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [287610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287610)]<br>Promotion of the Christian religion through radio broadcast, magazine publication, online activity and events. Support of all those in need through a Lifeline telephone service. Encouragement and support for the church in the use of new media. Campaigning on single-issues which are of concern to Christians and the church. | £11,176,707
<strong>Ayr Hospital Radio SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050000](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050000)]<br>4 The Organisations objectives are: 4.1 To relieve sickness. depression, anxiety and isolation by providing a local broadcasting service specifically for the University Hospital Ayr, the Ailsa and Biggart Hospitals and to a wider audience through the World Wide Web and potentially other media outlets | £18,066
<strong>STV Appeal</strong> [Charity number: [SC042429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042429)]<br>4 the SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 to relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship and/or other disadvantage.  4.2 to alleviate suffering and save lives in the aftermath of natural disasters or other events involving injury, deaths and/or displacement of people from their homes. 4.3 in relation to 4.4.3 below, the promotion of the voluntary sector or effectiveness or efficiency of charities 4.4 and on the understanding that, in furthering those charitable purposes, the primary activities of the SCIO will consist of: 4.4.1 at promoting charitable donations, through on-air and online appeals to the STV broadcasting and multi-platform audience 4.4.2 Distributing the funds raised through each appeal to charities (and other organisations, agencies and authorities) working in the field or geographical area to which that appeal relates. and 4.4.3 Facilitating the distribution of funds and property separate to the said appeals. To charities organisations and others to promote, encourage and facilitate charities and charitable activities in Scotland. 4.5 for the purposes of the Taxes Acts the provisions set out in clauses 4.1 to 4.4 shall be read together to ensure the charitable purposes of the SCIO are compliant with the Taxes Act. | £2,355,187
<strong>Edinburgh Quartet</strong> [Charity number: [SC052621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052621)]<br>5 The organisation's purposes are: (a) To promote, through the Quartet, the public's access to and appreciation of arts in general and in particular music for string quartet,  (b) To promote concerts and other live, broadcast, recorded or streamed performances by the Edinburgh Quartet, in Scotland, UK, and overseas with special emphasis on serving geographically and socially isolated  communities as well as ensuring that the string quartet genre continues to be a mainstay of artistic life  (c) To support the Quartet's education of pupils, students, and/or adults, especially but not exclusively, with respect to the string quartet, thus inspiring a lifelong appreciation of this art form (d) To mentor musicians in the performance of music, by providing opportunities to perform with the Edinburgh Quartet (e) To encourage and support new musical compositions to be written for performance by the Edinburgh Quartet | £6,750
<strong>THE MOUNTAIN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1112841](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112841)]<br>The Mountain Trust concentrates on education, health and human rights in Nepal. It sponsors students through education, broadcasts radio-based education and sends volunteers and interns to work in Nepal. It broadcasts civic education and participates in human and civic rights education. It also assists Afghans fleeing the Taliban to escape to second and third countries. | £5,567
<strong>Charles Wood Festival of Music (Charles Wood Summer School)</strong> [Charity number: [NI102656](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102656)]<br>Inspired by Charles Wood, composer and famous son of Armagh, the Charles Wood Festival of Music provides annually, in August, a week-long cross-community festival of more than thirty events centred round music in worship. These consist of concerts, recitals, workshops and seminars, as well as services, including two BBC Broadcasts at local and national level, which take place in all main churches and both cathedrals in Armagh. As part of the Summer School, two resident choirs, the Charles Wood Singers and the Charles Wood Girls'’ Choir, are formed at the beginning of the week to prepare the wide range of music performed in services and concerts, culminating in the BBC Radio 3 Choral Evensong and Gala Concert. Choir members are drawn from the island of Ireland and GB and together number around 70 singers. Public workshops are held for organists, singers, choir trainers and conductors. There are also individual voice tuition sessions and a “Come and Sing” event for any member of a choir. Main concerts are the Opening, Candlelight and Gala Concerts and the Lunchtime Concert series. Services include three Sung Masses, three Choral Evensongs, a Hymn Festival and Sunday services in the main churches. Organ recitals include ‘Bach at Twilight’ and ‘Music for Two Organs’. To facilitate all this staff and tutors, most of international repute, are drawn from leading musicians in the UK and Ireland (e.g. Dr David Hill, Chief Conductor of the BBC Singers, and international orchestral conductor; Paul Farrington, international vocal coach and NHS voice consultant). Scholarships are provided for a young local singer and an organ scholar to attend the Festival week free of charge. Young Performers’ Club concerts are held during the year to encourage and provide a platform for up and coming young musicians to develop their skills. The Friends of the CW Summer School broaden support for the Festival and promote its objects. | £118,170
<strong>CELEBRATION CHURCH INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1198609](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198609)]<br>Celebration Church International exists to advance the Christian faith for the benefit of the entire public in the United Kingdom through the broadcasting of Christian messages and music, holding prayer meetings and much more.We currently operate physically in London, Birmingham, Manchester and Glasgow on Sundays by 11am & Wednesdays by 6pm, and stream to other parts of the United Kingdom. | £701,050
<strong>Tayside Hospital Broadcasting Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC032874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032874)]<br>The objectives of the Organisation shall be to entertain and inform patients, staff and visitors of Ninewells Hospital and other NHS facilities within Tayside. In addition the Organisation will:- a) Operate subject to the permission of NHS Tayside and to any conditions they may impose, b) Comply with any regulations applicable to the Organisation and be compliant with the licences held, and c) as a Third Sector Partner to NHS Tayside, work in partnership with the Volunteer Hub and other parts of the Trust. | £13,632
<strong>Coatbridge and Cumbernauld Community Connect (4C Connect) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC054006](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054006)]<br>4.1 The advancement of education through the provision of training programmes and learning opportunities designed to equip beneficiaries with the skills and knowledge necessary to secure employment, thus benefiting the broader community, contributing to personal and community development.  4.2 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, through the provision of platforms for creative expression, including radio broadcasting, video production, and social media projects, actively involving the local community, and enhancing the cultural life of Cumbernauld, Coatbridge, and surrounding areas.  4.3 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement through engaging the community in activities focused on preserving and enhancing the natural environment, such as initiatives for recycling, up cycling, and repurposing clothing and goods. These efforts will promote sustainability and foster a greener community. | 
<strong>ASSEMBLY OF GOD POIEMA</strong> [Charity number: [1209497](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209497)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN EVANGELICAL RELIGION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENTS OF BELIEF APPEARING IN THE SCHEDULE HERETO IN THE LONDON BOROUGH OF BRENT AND IN SUCH OTHER PARTS OF ENGLAND AS THE TRUSTEES MAY FROM TIME TO TIME THINK FIT, BY MEANS OF BROADCASTING CHRISTIAN MESSAGES OF AN EVANGELISTIC AND TEACHING NATURE, THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER MEETINGS, LECTURES, PUBLIC CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, AND PRODUCING AND/OR DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE ON CHRISTIANITY TO ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT THE CHRISTIAN EVANGELICAL RELIGION. | 
