# Theatre `AR307`

Theatre is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

4,077 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.01% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(theatr(e|ical)|pantomime|drama(tic)?|shakespeare?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,158 | 1.58%
£10k - £100k | 1,641 | 2.37%
£100k - £250k | 414 | 1.95%
£250k - £500k | 275 | 2.65%
£500k - £1m | 158 | 2.45%
£1m - £10m | 215 | 2.45%
Over £10m | 39 | 1.82%
Total | 3,900 | 2.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 3,395 | 1.99%
oscr | 474 | 1.93%
ccni | 208 | 2.88%
Total | 4,077 | 2.01%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [224223](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-224223)]<br>The National Theatre is central to the creative life of the UK. In its three theatres on the South Bank in London it presents new plays and classics from the world repertoire. It extends its reach through live broadcasts into cinema, UK and International tours and deepens audience engagement through its education programme. It looks after the wider health of theatre through R&D at the NT Studio. | £121,400,000
<strong>THE ROYAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON</strong> [Charity number: [212481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212481)]<br>To conserve, advance and disseminate the dramatic heritage of Shakespeare and advance and improve the dramatic art in the UK and throughout the world; producing and presenting dramatic performances of all kinds and teaching, training and other educational activities. These objectives are achieved by the production of plays by Shakespeare, other classic playwrights and commissioning new work. | £92,171,000
<strong>The Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music</strong> [Charity number: [SC043343](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043343)]<br>The objects of the Board are:- (a) the advancement of the arts sciences and skills of music, speech and drama throughout the United Kingdom and overseas. (b) the promotion of education and instruction III and the study and appreciation of music, speech and drama and the dissemination of knowledge concerning the same. | £48,890,000
<strong>SADLER'S WELLS TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [279884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-279884)]<br>The object for which the charity is established is to advance education particularly by encouraging the understanding and appreciation of the dramatic arts. | £41,757,221
<strong>BIRMINGHAM HIPPODROME THEATRE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [510842](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510842)]<br>The Trust was established to present theatrical productions, encourage the arts and promote education. As one of the world's leading presenting theatres it aims to be world-class in every respect: to present a wide-ranging, high quality, developing programme, to ensure access for all, to develop a growing & diverse audience & to complement this with a range of creative education & outreach events. | £36,984,000
<strong>THE SHAKESPEARE GLOBE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [266916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-266916)]<br>The Trust's primary purpose is to promote, maintain, improve and advance education, by encouraging and stimulating public appreciation and understanding of the dramatic art in all its forms, but principally in relation to the works of William Shakespeare. The Trust aims to fulfil this purpose through educational programmes, theatre performances, exhibitiona and guided tours at the Globe Theatre. | £29,923,000
<strong>TAUNTON SCHOOL EDUCATIONAL CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1081420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081420)]<br>Advancing education for girls and boys age 2 to 18 both day and boarding.  Adding the maximum value to help most pupils achieve excellent exam results and enabling all to maximise their potential.  Helping pupils to be 'Ready for Life' through many co-curricular activities including; debating, music, drama and sport. | £29,190,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £27,650,000
<strong>BACKSTAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1145887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145887)]<br>Primary focus are projects in live performing arts, mainly theatre. Main areas of support are: consultant advice to help with the professional development of small scale arts organisations, assisting live arts projects involving disadvantaged children and young people, feasibility studies for capital projects and consultant advice on fundraising/case for support/recruiting development staff. | £22,515,761
<strong>THE OLD VIC THEATRE TRUST 2000</strong> [Charity number: [1072590](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072590)]<br>Operation and preservation of The Old Vic Theatre; education and community programmes. | £21,572,250


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The West of Scotland Civic Arts and Therapy Company [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC043133](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043133)]<br>The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are: (i) Primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, but also (ii) Available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 4.2 By the provision of an Arts and Therapy Centre providing facilities for the public to participate in music, arts and theatre workshops and access help in the development of communication and relationship skills | 
<strong>LINDFIELD DRAMATIC CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [292488](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292488)]<br>Drama.  Providing public entertainment by amateur dramatic productions and activities, | £1,128
<strong>HOLYWOOD DISTRICT UNIVERSITY OF THE THIRD AGE</strong> [Charity number: [NI100647](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100647)]<br>We have a monthly general meeting consisting of : A speaker educating the general membership about a broad range of topics, including history, personal achievements, culture and the arts. Advice to members of up-coming events for our specialist U3A groups Advice to members of up-coming events in the local community and with others U3As All other general business of the U3A. We arrange specialist U3A group activities consisting of: Educational “classes “ where members and/or external speakers exchange their knowledge and experience to inform the group’s members. Outings to specifically arranged places of interest such as private gardens (for gardening enthusiasts) or public parks (for walkers). Outings to public events, to enjoy with others: The Theatre, Cinema, Concerts, Exhibitions, Community Events, and Art Galleries. | £5,995
<strong>Caledonian Opera Company</strong> [Charity number: [SC019844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC019844)]<br>(i) To promote, encourage, and advance for the public benefit either on its own or in conjunction with others, the recognition and appreciation of vocal and other music and drama both in the Dominion of the United Kingdom and elsewhere and to provide encouragement funding and performance opportunities for those showing particular talent, expertise, or interest in vocal a,nd other music and drama. /' in particular by:  (a) acquiring and providing funding and assistance in the provision of concerts, productions, exhibitions' and all other forms of presentation for the benefit of the public, and for such supporting facilities, goods and services, as are useful to that end   (b) education, advancing public knowledge, and stimulating appreciation of vocal and other music and drama. | 
<strong>THE HALL SCHOOL CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [312722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312722)]<br>The School's principal activity is the education of boys aged between four and thirteen, including sports, music, drama, arts and crafts and other activities. | £12,460,276
<strong>Cult·rlann McAdam Ë Fiaich</strong> [Charity number: [NI102145](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102145)]<br>Cultúrlann produces a vibrant Arts Programme that promotes Irish language and culture. An Chultúrlann on its three floors, contains space for artistic and theatrical expression, a café, a tourist information office, book and gift shop. A new extension officially opened in September 2011 has added a new gallery and a space in which to interact with the language through digital technology. Live traditional and contemporary music sessions, exhibitions, poetry readings, céilí’s, concerts, workshops and a children’s arts programme are all provided. At Cultúrlann we celebrate our cultural traditions and foster them through classes, workshops and performance Aisling Óg has been going from strength to strength since its inception in 2009, providing young actors with an outlet to express themselves through drama in Irish on a Saturday. Our philosophy is simple; 'the use of our imagination is what creates the magic of theatre.' Na Bopóga: Plúra-Lúra, Nóra Bheag and all their friends are not to be missed with their stories, songs and dances that small children enjoy while enhancing their educational development. Na Bopóga is presented by a team of trained facilitators. Cultúrlann first opened to accommodate a nine pupil Irish-medium second level school, since when the centre has been the springboard for many Irish language initiatives and enterprises. The Irish Medium secondary school grew to become Coláiste Feirste, with over 600 pupils on the roll. There are year round arts events and Cultúrlann is also home to Bia, the café at the heart of Cultúrlann , the Siobhán McKenna theatre, the Dillon Gallery, Na Ballaí Bána Gallery, , Aisling Ghéar theatre company, Taca who support Irish medium education, the Irish Language culture and lifestyle magazine, Nós and Sonas, an Irish language production company. Central to the ethos has always been a non-political, independent mind-set that values our language and culture as part of the common heritage of all the people. | £555,923
<strong>Kalgidhar Sikhi Parchar Society</strong> [Charity number: [1152386](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152386)]<br>KALGHIDAR SIKH MISSION has been set up to promote the Sikh religion,history,culture & arts by working with Multi Faith organisations & established charitable organisations & to collaborate in the field of film, television, theatre and performance arts with all cultures, to promote our aims & objectives. We also aim to develop projects that will empower marginalised and underprivileged groups. | £15,481
<strong>Horsecross Arts Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC022400](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022400)]<br>a) To advance education by the encouragement of the performing arts by means of production, presentation, collection, exhibition, collaboration, education and training in performing arts. b) To run arts development and arts education programmes in theatre, music and new media public art in Perth and elsewhere which will promote and encourage creativity, skills development, social and personal development, social inclusion and lifelong learning but only as long assuch activities are regarded as charitable in law. | £5,215,225
<strong>NONENTITIES SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [202008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202008)]<br>The provision of live theatre for the people and district of Wyre Forest | £162,790
<strong>THE CUCKFIELD DRAMATIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1051485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051485)]<br>The object of the organisation shall be to educate, entertain and involve the local community, and to educate the youth of our community in drama and the performing arts. | £2,285
