# Orchestra `AR306`

Orchestra is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

744 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.37% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(orchestral?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 226 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 397 | 0.58%
£100k - £250k | 38 | 0.18%
£250k - £500k | 16 | 0.16%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.16%
£1m - £10m | 21 | 0.24%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.33%
Total | 715 | 0.37%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 661 | 0.39%
oscr | 68 | 0.28%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 744 | 0.37%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE LONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [232391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232391)]<br>The principal activity of the LSO is the provision of a Symphony Orchestra for high quality musical performances, broadcasting and recordings and supporting this work with a music education programme designed to reach a wide range of people. | £21,518,000
<strong>LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [238045](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-238045)]<br>PROVISION OF ORCHESTRAL SERVICES AND MUSIC EDUCATION | £12,758,165
<strong>B:MUSIC LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1053937](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053937)]<br>(1) TO PROMOTE AND PRESENT CONCERT PERFORMANCES OF CLASSICAL, POPULAR AND CONTEMPORARY MUSIC, COMPLEMENTARY TO THOSE OF THE CITY OF BIRMINGHAM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA (CBSO) AND OF WORLD-CLASS CALIBRE,(2) TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC BY PROMOTING, FOSTERING AND ENCOURAGING THE KNOWLEDGE, UNDERSTANDING AND APPRECIATION OF THE ARTS, PARTICULARLY MUSIC, PROVIDING AN EDUCATION PROGRAMME FOR THIS PURPOSE. | £12,370,476
<strong>THE ROYAL LIVERPOOL PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [230538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-230538)]<br>The Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society's mission is to promote the love of music. Activities include: Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir; Liverpool Philharmonic Youth Orchestra and Youth, Community and Gospel Choirs; CD label RLPOlive; an education and participation programme; and contemporary, jazz and world music alongside rock, pop, comedy and classic films in Philharmonic Hall. | £12,039,000
<strong>ROYAL PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [244533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244533)]<br>TO PROMOTE, MAINTAIN AND ADVANCE EDUCATION, PARTICULARLY MUSICAL EDUCATION AND TO ENCOURAGE THE ARTS OF MUSIC, DRAMA, MIME, DANCING AND SINGING. MAINTAINING SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRAS AND PROMOTING, ORGANISING AND PARTICIPATING IN CONCERTS, ENRICHING PEOPLE'S LIVES THROUGH MUSIC  OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY, REACHING THE WIDEST POSSIBLE AUDIENCE IN THE CONCERT HALL AND THE COMMUNITY. | £11,218,519
<strong>HALLE CONCERTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [223882](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223882)]<br>The Halle Concerts Society maintains and manages the Halle Orchestra. It promotes concerts by the Orchestra and other artists and ensembles in Manchester; presents concerts throughout the UK and overseas in association with local promoters, produces recordings and radio and television broadcasts and undertakes a full programme of educational and outreach work. | £10,869,000
<strong>Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC010702](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010702)]<br>The objects for which the Society is established are:- (1) To promote the study, practice and knowledge of music in Scotland and other musical, literary, artistic, cultural and educational purposes connected therewith, and for these purposes to establish, maintain and manage an orchestra or orchestras which shall be a national orchestra or orchestras for the whole of Scotland and may represent Scotland in other countries. (2) To organise, manage and provide or assist in organising, managing and providing orchestral, instrumental, vocal and choral concerts and performances, meetings, lectures, study circles and similar activities connected with music in any part of the world, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (3) To establish and provide for the convenience of audiences and persons attending concerts, performances, meetings, lectures and other activities of the Society, restaurants, refreshment rooms, lounges and other similar facilities, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (4) To make use of cinema, radio, television, gramophone and any other device or invention relating to production or reproduction of music in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. | £10,642,732
<strong>CITY OF BIRMINGHAM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [506276](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506276)]<br>Promoting concerts in Birmingham. Taking part in concerts at other venues in the UK and around the world. Broadcasting and recording work. Extensive education programme. Running 3 unpaid professional choruses and an auditioned youth choir in partnership with Birmingham Music Services. Management of CBSO Centre, the Orchestra's administration and rehearsal home and medium sized performance venue. | £9,332,269
<strong>PHILHARMONIA LTD</strong> [Charity number: [250277](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250277)]<br>The charitable objectives are the advancement of public education through the promotion and support of the art of music, particularly by the promotion and encouragement of orchestral music and the relief of povertyand distress amongst playing members of any symphony orchestra for the time being maintained by the Charity. We achieve this by maintaining a symphony orchestra of the highest quality. | £8,804,771
<strong>BOURNEMOUTH SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [208520](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-208520)]<br>Provision of Orchestral performances, education and community projects nationally and internationally. | £8,449,917


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SALISBURY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [1152791](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152791)]<br>To promote, improve, develop and maintain public education in, and appreciation of the performance of classical music in all its aspects by any means the trustees see fit, including the presentation of public concerts.The trustees also administer the Eileen Merry Young Musicians' Fund by making grants to suitable applicants. | £4,691
<strong>LANGCLIFFE SINGERS</strong> [Charity number: [1007885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1007885)]<br>A community based Choral Society which rehearses and performs a varied repertoire of classical and modern choral music.  All singers are welcome.  On occasion, we work with other musical organisations in the area, such as Settle Orchestra, Skipton Music Centre, RNCM soloists, Settle Voices and Settle Operatic Society to perform concerts. | £18,910
<strong>THE NATIONAL YOUTH JAZZ ORCHESTRA LTD</strong> [Charity number: [274578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-274578)]<br>NYJO is a multi-faceted organisation specialising in creating opportunities for young people to perform jazz. We run a variety of different ensembles, from quintets to big bands, giving emerging professional musicians unparalleled performance opportunities. We deliver participatory programmes nationwide, widening access to jazz. We have a strong commitment to the community at our home in Woolwich. | £714,833
<strong>Highland Chamber Orchestra</strong> [Charity number: [SC030515](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030515)]<br>The Objects of the Association shall be the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, in (but not exclusively) the Highlands of Scotiand by: a) Creating a platform for the underused talents of classical musicians in the Highlands to take part in regular orchestral playing b) Providing affordable public concerts throughout the Highlands played by local musicians c) Taking music to outlying areas in the Highlands d) Giving soloist opportunities and encouragement to gifted students and school children to play e) Being non profit making f) Raising funds in furtherance of the above objects g) For other purposes as shall be exclusively charitable as the Committee may from time to time decide. | £6,062
<strong>WINDSOR AND MAIDENHEAD SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [296537](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296537)]<br>Public concerts and musical education | £31,738
<strong>THE BIRMINGHAM PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [1193786](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193786)]<br>The objects of the Orchestra are the advancement of the arts, in particular the art and science of music, by the study, practice and public performance of music and by such other activities as the trustees may from time to time determine. | £33,011
<strong>Inverurie Orchestra [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC051922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051922)]<br>The organisation's purposes are to promote, improve, develop and maintain public education in and appreciation of, the art and science of music in all its aspects by the presentation of public concerts and recitals, meeting charitable purposes 'the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science' and 'the advancement of education'. In furtherance thereof but not otherwise shall seek:  4.1. To provide an opportunity for instrumentalists of all standards to play in an orchestra under an accomplished Musical Director 4.2. To enable musicians to enjoy the musical and social life of the orchestra, explore a varied repertoire and develop musically under the direction of Musical Director, Leader and other Members. 4.3. To establish a profile in the Grampian area, through a number of public concerts and workshops. 4.4. To purchase, take on lease, hire, or otherwise acquire, any property or rights, which are suitable for the organisation's activities. 4.5. To effect insurance of all kinds. 4.6. To invest any funds which are not immediately required for the organisation's activities in such investments as may be considered appropriate (and to dispose of, and vary, such investments). 4.7. To liaise with other voluntary sector bodies, local authorities, UK or Scottish Government departments and agencies and other bodies, all with a view to furthering the organisations objects 4.8. To take such steps as may be deemed appropriate for the purpose of raising funds for the organisation's activities 4.9. To accept grants, donations and legacies of all kinds (and to accept any reasonable conditions attached to them). 4.10. To promote a positive equal opportunities policy and practise programme. | £12,532
<strong>Helensburgh Orchestral Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC037588](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037588)]<br>The advancement of the arts and culture of orchestral music in the community of Helensburgh and surroundings | £10,975
<strong>Association of Friends of the South Ulster Youth Orchestra and Band</strong> [Charity number: [NI102129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102129)]<br>1. The Association of Friends of the SUYO and SUYB provides financial and practical support to the Music Service of the Southern Education and Library Board in the provision of opportunities for the South Ulster Youth Orchestra and the South Ulster Youth band to undertake tours at home or abroad at which orchestra members will undertake public performances. 2. The Association provides financial support in form of bursaries for advanced tuition for students pursuing advanced instrumental study beyond grade 5 under the pupilage of Music Service Tutors. 3. The Association provides financial assistance to SELB Music Summer to run additional workshops over and above that provided as part of standard provision, the purpose of which is to enhance appreciation of music and performance by students. | £2,063
<strong>MID SUSSEX SINFONIA</strong> [Charity number: [801923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801923)]<br>We promote the love of classical music through our orchestral concerts | £9,317
