# Choirs `AR301`

Choirs is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

2,693 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.32% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(choir|choral|chorus|choristers|singing|singers?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 742 | 1.04%
£10k - £100k | 1,535 | 2.18%
£100k - £250k | 148 | 0.66%
£250k - £500k | 73 | 0.66%
£500k - £1m | 37 | 0.53%
£1m - £10m | 42 | 0.46%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.31%
Total | 2,584 | 1.34%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,380 | 1.39%
oscr | 232 | 0.93%
ccni | 81 | 1.16%
Total | 2,693 | 1.32%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £28,804,714
<strong>THE COLLEGE OF SAINT MARY OF WINCHESTER IN OXFORD, COMMONLY CALLED NEW COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [1142701](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142701)]<br>The advancement of education, learning and research; and the advancement of religion (in that the College is a choral college in accordance with the Founder's intentions and hence it sustains a Choir and a Choir School). | £22,622,000
<strong>WELLS CATHEDRAL SCHOOL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [310212](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310212)]<br>The education and care of c.700 boys and girls from ages 3-18, including the choristers of the cathedral church of St Andrews in Wells. The school is also one of the four government supported specialist music schools in the country and advanced musical training is provided for about a third of its pupils. | £19,080,000
<strong>THE ROYAL LIVERPOOL PHILHARMONIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [230538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-230538)]<br>The Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Society's mission is to promote the love of music. Activities include: Royal Liverpool Philharmonic Orchestra and Choir; Liverpool Philharmonic Youth Orchestra and Youth, Community and Gospel Choirs; CD label RLPOlive; an education and participation programme; and contemporary, jazz and world music alongside rock, pop, comedy and classic films in Philharmonic Hall. | £12,640,000
<strong>ROYAL PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [244533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244533)]<br>TO PROMOTE, MAINTAIN AND ADVANCE EDUCATION, PARTICULARLY MUSICAL EDUCATION AND TO ENCOURAGE THE ARTS OF MUSIC, DRAMA, MIME, DANCING AND SINGING. MAINTAINING SYMPHONIC ORCHESTRAS AND PROMOTING, ORGANISING AND PARTICIPATING IN CONCERTS, ENRICHING PEOPLE'S LIVES THROUGH MUSIC  OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY, REACHING THE WIDEST POSSIBLE AUDIENCE IN THE CONCERT HALL AND THE COMMUNITY. | £11,768,305
<strong>Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC010702](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010702)]<br>The objects for which the Society is established are:- (1) To promote the study, practice and knowledge of music in Scotland and other musical, literary, artistic, cultural and educational purposes connected therewith, and for these purposes to establish, maintain and manage an orchestra or orchestras which shall be a national orchestra or orchestras for the whole of Scotland and may represent Scotland in other countries. (2) To organise, manage and provide or assist in organising, managing and providing orchestral, instrumental, vocal and choral concerts and performances, meetings, lectures, study circles and similar activities connected with music in any part of the world, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (3) To establish and provide for the convenience of audiences and persons attending concerts, performances, meetings, lectures and other activities of the Society, restaurants, refreshment rooms, lounges and other similar facilities, in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. (4) To make use of cinema, radio, television, gramophone and any other device or invention relating to production or reproduction of music in furtherance of the object declared in Clause III (1) hereof. | £11,434,785
<strong>DONMAR WAREHOUSE PROJECTS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [284262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284262)]<br>The objects of the charity are to promote, maintain, improve and advance education particularly by theencouragement of the Arts including the arts of drama, ballet, music, singing, literature, sculpture and painting. Thecompany meets these through continuing to produce and present theatrical productions at the Donmar WarehouseTheatre. | £10,098,834
<strong>MOUNTVIEW ACADEMY OF THEATRE ARTS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [274166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-274166)]<br>To promote and assist in the advancement of education in theatrical art, drama, speech training, public singing, dancing, elocution and other accomplishments and acquirements as may be thought necessary. In particular by the establishment and maintenance of schools or institutes or otherwise, studios, practice rooms and exhibition rooms. | £9,015,240
<strong>CITY OF BIRMINGHAM SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [506276](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506276)]<br>Promoting concerts in Birmingham. Taking part in concerts at other venues in the UK and around the world. Broadcasting and recording work. Extensive education programme. Running 3 unpaid professional choruses and an auditioned youth choir in partnership with Birmingham Music Services. Management of CBSO Centre, the Orchestra's administration and rehearsal home and medium sized performance venue. | £8,595,617
<strong>Edinburgh Festival Fringe Society Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC002995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002995)]<br>The objects of the Society are:- 4.1.1 To promote and advance for the public benefit the arts and the appreciation of the arts, including, but not restricted to, the arts of drama, mime, dance, singing, music and theatre (all together, 'the Arts'). 4.1.2 To educate, support, advise, and encourage those who participate in the Arts. 4.1.3 To promote the Arts at all levels of cultural and educational life in Scotland and elsewhere. and 4.1.4 To promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions and in such proportions and manner as the Directors shall think fit. Declaring that the expressions 'charitable purpose' or 'charitable object' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts and a 'charitable institution' shall mean a body on the Scottish Charity Register which is also regarded as a charity in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts or a charity within the meaning of section 1 of the Charities Act 2006 or section 1 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 provided that its objects are limited to charitable purposes.' | £8,278,645


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ANTIPHON CHAMBER CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1217041](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1217041)]<br>I. TO ADVANCE, IMPROVE, AND DEVELOP PUBLIC EDUCATION IN, AND APPRECIATION OF, THE ART OF CHORAL MUSIC IN ALL ITS ASPECTS THOROUGH (A) THE PRESENTATION OF CONCERTS OF HIGH ARTISTIC VALUE IN THE CITY OF OXFORD AND ELSEWHERE, (B) THE PROMOTION OF A CHORAL CONDUCTING SCHEME FOR ONE STUDENT CONDUCTOR PER YEAR (AGES 18-25), AND BY OTHER SUCH MEANS AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL FROM TIME TO TIME DETERMINE. THE CHOIR ALSO EXISTS TO PERFORM BRITISH MUSIC WHICH MAY HITHERTO BE LITTLE-KNOWN, THEREBY MAINTAINING PUBLIC INTEREST IN OUR CULTURAL HERITAGE AND MAKING IT AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. | 
<strong>ANNA'S SONG</strong> [Charity number: [1213211](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1213211)]<br>To help teenagers in Wales develop their skills, capacities and capabilities in singing, by providing them with the opportunity to participate in live performances and receiving training, via workshops and mentoring. | 
<strong>Assembly Theatre Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC010575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010575)]<br>The Company is established to promote and advance education by the production of educational plays and particularly by the production and touring of new plays and also for the encouragement of Arts, including the arts of drama, mime, dance, singing and music and to formulate, prepare and establish schemes therefore with special reference to the Arts in Scotland both nationally and locally provided that all objects of the Company shall be of a charitable nature. | £323,484
<strong>ULCC</strong> [Charity number: [1027560](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1027560)]<br>The choir aims to promote, improve, develop and maintain public education in an appreciation of liturgical choral music by the provision of such music for Christian Church Services and by presentation of public concerts and recitals. | £17,089
<strong>BRADFORD ON AVON CHORAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1170184](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170184)]<br>To advance, improve and develop public education and appreciation of choral music in all its aspects by any means the Trustees shall see fit including the presentation of public concerts and recitals. The charity is bases in Bradford on Avon, Wiltshire where it holds its' rehearsals and most of its public performances although on occasions performances are given in a wider area. | £19,112
<strong>CASTLE CARY CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1188547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188547)]<br>The objective of Castle Cary Choir is to: advance, improve, develop and maintain public education in, and appreciation of, the art and science of music in all its aspects, including through the presentation of public concerts and recitals.We operate in Castle Cary, Somerset, and hold rehearsals on a weekly basis, with a number of concerts, performed in the local area. | £9,597
<strong>MOWBRAY GATEWAY CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1114776](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1114776)]<br>The Mowbray Gateway Club provides a safe place for adults with learning disabilities and additional needs to get together to enjoy social ,leisure and sporting activities. The club currently provides access to a variety of activities and opportunities including a social club, a sports club ,a dance club, a singing and signing choir, a community sing and praise event and craft activities . | £15,240
<strong>West End Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [NI102500](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102500)]<br>The West End Partnership organise and run a range of social, educational, environmental, health and recreational activities as well as providing a base for other services and facilities to be provided in the area. Some of these activities include; • Annual programme of events; Summer Festival, Easter Event, Halloween Event, St Patrick’s Day event, Christmas Carol singing and kids party, trips and outings • Coffee morning fundraisers e.g. for Marie Curie, Cancer Focus etc • Hot meals for seniors • Bingo • Solace (local alcohol programme) • Parent/ Toddler group • Family Support Services (Westville Family Resource Centre) • Inter-agency meetings • NIHE Local Housing Forum meetings • Youth club/ drop in (WELB) • Prayer meetings • Range of classes e.g. card making, gardening etc • Meet the neighbour events. | £400
<strong>STURMINSTER CHORAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1086285](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086285)]<br>Choral Society | £8,253
<strong>COLCHESTER CHORAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [278894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278894)]<br>Colchester Choral Society works to uphold and strengthen the English Choral tradition by performing public concerts to a high standard with professional soloists and orchestras. | £31,346
