# Opera `AR305`

Opera is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

672 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.33% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(opera(tic)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 152 | 0.20%
£10k - £100k | 324 | 0.47%
£100k - £250k | 67 | 0.32%
£250k - £500k | 35 | 0.35%
£500k - £1m | 20 | 0.32%
£1m - £10m | 29 | 0.34%
Over £10m | 13 | 0.63%
Total | 640 | 0.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 544 | 0.32%
oscr | 112 | 0.45%
ccni | 16 | 0.22%
Total | 672 | 0.33%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL OPERA HOUSE COVENT GARDEN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [211775](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211775)]<br>Presentation of opera and ballet performances at the Royal Opera House Covent Garden and tours in the United Kingdom and overseas | £170,697,000
<strong>GLYNDEBOURNE PRODUCTIONS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [243877](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-243877)]<br>To present opera of the highest international quality in all respects, to remain financially independent, to balance old and new repertory and explore ways of developing the art form, to make our work accessible to a wide audience through Glyndebourne on Tour and by our Education programme and to provide a stimulating and inspirational environment for artists, staff and audiences. | £33,807,000
<strong>ENGLISH NATIONAL OPERA</strong> [Charity number: [257210](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257210)]<br>To produce & present opera and to develop and extend audiences for opera and understanding of the lyric arts in London and throughout the country. | £33,714,811
<strong>WALES MILLENNIUM CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1060458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060458)]<br>WMC aims to create a special place which will provide a focal point for the unique culture, identity and talents of Wales though the creation of a world class showcase for musicals, opera, dance, exhibitions, entertainment and education in a millennium landmark, with long lasting benefits for the whole community. | £26,581,645
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £25,566,092
<strong>OPERA NORTH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [511726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511726)]<br>The principal activities of the charity are to encourage the understanding and appreciation of the lyric art by providing, presenting, organising and conducting opera performances, symphony concerts and educational events primarily in the North of England. | £18,349,010
<strong>WELSH NATIONAL OPERA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [221538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221538)]<br>The company engages in all aspects of staging opera and educational activity together with a wide range of related activities including concerts, broadcasts, recordings and publications. | £18,166,000
<strong>Leeds Heritage Theatres</strong> [Charity number: [500408](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500408)]<br>Maintain and develop the Leeds Grand Theatre, City Varieties Music Hall and Hyde Park Picture House. Offer drama, opera, ballet, musicals, comedy, variety, pantomime and arthouse / mainstream films. Increase engagement with performing arts and with heritage of these listed buildings through innovative learning and interpretation programmes. | £17,228,040
<strong>Scottish Opera</strong> [Charity number: [SC019787](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC019787)]<br>The advancement of education of the public in Scotland by the creation of opportunities for the people of Scotland to see and hear productions and performances of opera and ballet, music, dance, plaus and drama and of operatic, dramatic and other music. | £13,663,468
<strong>Aberdeen Performing Arts</strong> [Charity number: [SC033733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033733)]<br>Without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the charitable objects for which the Company is established are:- 3.1.1 to present, provide or assist in the provision of facilities at reasonable cost for the performing arts, including but not limited to music, opera, drama, contemporary and traditional dance and light entertainment (such facilities being provided from time to time being hereinafter referred to as 'the Facilities') for the general public in, or in connection with, the Local Authority area of Aberdeen City Council as defined in Schedule 1 to the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994 (such Local Authority area being referred hereafter to as 'Aberdeen') and other parts of Scotland in the interests of social welfare and improving the conditions of life of the general public and, also, to encourage the wider use of the Facilities by residents of, and visitors to, Aberdeen and Scotland for festivals, concerts, workshops, conferences and events all related to the performing arts. and 3.1.2 to advance the education of the public in the performing arts by presenting, promoting, sponsoring, supporting and assisting in the development of public interest in and awareness of the performing arts within and at the Facilities and in the community through the use of outreach programmes, publications and other media promotion. (The purposes for which the Company is established as set out in subclauses 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 inclusive being hereinafter referred to as 'the Objects of the Company'). | £13,076,251


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE INTIMATE OPERA CLUB (ELTHAM)</strong> [Charity number: [260755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-260755)]<br>A group of amateur singers learning, rehearsing and presenting public staged and concert performances of scenes and excerpts from grand opera. | 
<strong>THE MUSICAL YOUTH COMPANY OF OXFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1004081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1004081)]<br>Educate youth between the ages of 12 years and 19 years on the 1st of September  in the dramatic and operatic arts to further the development of the public appreciation and taste in the said arts. To enable the youths to appear on a professional stage and to perform in front of the general public | £84,369
<strong>The Cross Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC008620](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008620)]<br>6. The Trustees shall hold the funds on trust to collect and apply the income, and such funds from the capital of the Trust Fund as they think fit, in order to provide opportunities to young people primarily (but not exclusively) residing in Scotland, as the Trustees shall determine, in order to enable them to extend the boundaries of their knowledge of human life and to employ their leisure in such pursuits as will foster their love of nature and improve their physical health and well-being. and whereby the British and especially the Scottish public may be participators in that enjoyment of drama and opera from which Captain Cross in his own lifetime derived lasting pleasure. and in particular, but without prejudice to such other objects of a like kind as may seem to the Trustees from time to time desirable, (a) to award scholarships, supplements to scholarships or other financial aid as set forth in Schedule A hereto. (b) to make grants for the promotion among the youth of Scotland of a love of nature and Scottish scenery as set forth in Schedule B hereto. and (c) to make grants to assist the performance anywhere in Great Britain, but especially in Scotland, in accordance with Schedule C hereto, of such dramatic and operatic works and other entertainments as may seem to the Trustees worthy of support, the Trustees to give consideration in particular to the plays of Shakespeare and Operas by Gilbert & Sullivan.  | £241,938
<strong>GOTHIC OPERA</strong> [Charity number: [1190703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190703)]<br>The advancement of the art of opera by the provision of artistic projects including performances of rare works related to supernatural and/or gothic subjects. | £58,519
<strong>Clann Eireann Youth Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI101558](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101558)]<br>Community Relations Programming 5th March saw a fitting end to what can only be described as a very successful series of community relations programmes which have been developed by Clann Eireann Youth ClubAll projects came to a conclusion with a Celebration Night at the Civic Centre Craigavon on 5th March 2014.Guests were greeted by Mr Colin Mc Cusker Deputy Mayor of Craigavon as well as Ms Orlaith Fitzmaurice Department Director of Peace and Reconciliation Fund DFA Dublin -the programmes main sponsor, Minister for Education Mr John O Dowd MLA was also in attendance,our guest speaker for the evening Mr Alan Mc Bride WAVE.Craigavon Sports Personality of the Year Awards,congratulations to Declan Mulholland & Niamh Coleman who picked up awards last night.Declan was voted Junior Male Sports Personality of the Year, whilst Niamh won Minor Female Sports Personality of the Year.Also the club itself picked up The Mary Canniffe Award- which is a special sporting award in recognition of the success throughout the entire club last year.U16 Doubles All Ireland Handball Champions congratulations to Alana Doran/Niamh Coleman who won the U-16 Doubles All Ireland Handball title.The club were also represented very proudly in 3 other finals.Spirit of Sports Award congratulations to young Niall McCann from our club who yesterday received the Lady Taverners' Spirit Of Sport' Award in the Grand Opera House, Belfast. Niall, 10 years old & a double amputee, won 1st prize in an award for children with a disability aged 6-16 yrs old who live their lives through sport. Niall plays a whole host of sports and is part of our current U-12 boys football team and also cycles along with the clubs cycling team.Marie Hoye and Caitriona McKeag tournament 2014Clann Eireann hosted their 5th annual tournament in memory of the late Marie Hoye and Caitriona McKeag on Saturday past, 12th April, with the largest number of teams participating since the tournament was launched 5 years ago. | £279,773
<strong>HASTINGS PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [1191425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191425)]<br>We deliver concerts (orchestral, choral, ensemble, chamber choir), recitals (wind, string & piano quintets, quartets and trios, vocal solo and duets), and opera performances and community projects, as well as free workshops and masterclasses for school children, a free children's choir and concerts and free open-air family concerts and pop-up public concerts in Hastings and the surrounding towns. | £162,535
<strong>WORCESTER MUSICAL THEATRE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1186651](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186651)]<br>TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC IN THE DRAMATIC AND OPERATIC ARTS, TO FURTHER THE DEVELOPMENT OF PUBLIC APPRECIATION AND TASTE IN THE SAID ARTS | £33,859
<strong>ORION SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA</strong> [Charity number: [1145038](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145038)]<br>The Orion Orchestra is a London-based symphony orchestra for exceptionally talented young musicians soon to leave music college. Performing within the city's most prestigious venues, it aims to encompass the full range of orchestral styles and disciplines its members will encounter in their later professional lives, from operatic and orchestral music to contemporary and fusion styles. | £81,782
<strong>TELFORD AND DISTRICT LIGHT OPERATIC PLAYERS</strong> [Charity number: [701613](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701613)]<br>The Society was formed in 1972 with the aim of educating the public in the dramatic and operatic arts and to develop public appreciation of these arts.  Over 80 shows have been produced throughout this period.  Shows and concerts are performed with the Telford Area with "The Place" (the theatre) being used to stage the major shows. | £47,750
<strong>Anstruther & District Amateur Operatic Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC037015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037015)]<br>To advance the education of the public in the art of music and drama.  In furtherance thereof but not otherwise, the Society shall seek -  (a) To promote the study, practice and development of such music and drama.  (b) To organise and present an annual production and other such events as may from time to time be decided. and  (c) To do all things charitable in law for the attainment of these objects. | £36,375
