# Performing art `AR300`

Performing art is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](/data/ukcat/AR) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

910 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.45% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(perform(ing|ance)? arts?|dramatic arts?|musical arts|amateur dramatics)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 310 | 0.37%
£10k - £100k | 299 | 0.46%
£100k - £250k | 103 | 0.53%
£250k - £500k | 50 | 0.55%
£1m - £10m | 45 | 0.57%
£500k - £1m | 28 | 0.49%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.54%
Total | 845 | 0.44%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 728 | 0.43%
oscr | 162 | 0.64%
ccni | 20 | 0.28%
Total | 910 | 0.45%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL SHAKESPEARE COMPANY, STRATFORD-UPON-AVON</strong> [Charity number: [212481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212481)]<br>To conserve, advance and disseminate the dramatic heritage of Shakespeare and advance and improve the dramatic art in the UK and throughout the world; producing and presenting dramatic performances of all kinds and teaching, training and other educational activities. These objectives are achieved by the production of plays by Shakespeare, other classic playwrights and commissioning new work. | £39,698,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £26,248,000
<strong>STEVENAGE LEISURE</strong> [Charity number: [1144638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144638)]<br>The provision of affordable facilities and activities for everyone in the interest of social welfare, provided to the public at large, to preserve good health, well being and stimulation through community participation in sports, recreation, fitness, health, education, performing arts, galleries, museums, theatres, libraries, community halls, parks and leisure centres | £25,101,400
<strong>SADLER'S WELLS TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [279884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-279884)]<br>The object for which the charity is established is to advance education particularly by encouraging the understanding and appreciation of the dramatic arts. | £22,696,000
<strong>InspireAll Leisure & Family Support Services</strong> [Charity number: [1093653](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093653)]<br>To Provide Leisure, Recreation, Family Services And Dramatic Arts Facilities To The Local Community.To promote and preserve good health and well being through community participation in healthy recreation. | £15,790,235
<strong>THE SHAKESPEARE GLOBE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [266916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-266916)]<br>The Trust's primary purpose is to promote, maintain, improve and advance education, by encouraging and stimulating public appreciation and understanding of the dramatic art in all its forms, but principally in relation to the works of William Shakespeare. The Trust aims to fulfil this purpose through educational programmes, theatre performances, exhibitiona and guided tours at the Globe Theatre. | £13,562,000
<strong>THE LIVERPOOL INSTITUTE FOR PERFORMING ARTS</strong> [Charity number: [1001565](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001565)]<br>Education and Training | £12,857,497
<strong>LEEDS GRAND THEATRE AND OPERA HOUSE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [500408](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500408)]<br>Maintain and develop the Leeds Grand Theatre, City Varieties Music Hall and Hyde Park Picture House. Offer drama, opera, ballet, musicals, comedy, variety, pantomime and arthouse / mainstream films. Increase engagement with performing arts and with heritage of these listed buildings through innovative learning and interpretation programmes. | £11,132,370
<strong>THE AES TRING PARK SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1040330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1040330)]<br>The provision of advancement in general education and specialised performing arts training in dance, drama, musical theatre and music. Training will also cover other forms of theatre, performance, art and any other subjects considered likely to assist students desiring to follow a career in or connected with the arts, colleges and universities specialising in similar subjects. | £10,469,132
<strong>Aberdeen Performing Arts</strong> [Charity number: [SC033733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033733)]<br>Without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the charitable objects for which the Company is established are:- 3.1.1 to present, provide or assist in the provision of facilities at reasonable cost for the performing arts, including but not limited to music, opera, drama, contemporary and traditional dance and light entertainment (such facilities being provided from time to time being hereinafter referred to as 'the Facilities') for the general public in, or in connection with, the Local Authority area of Aberdeen City Council as defined in Schedule 1 to the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994 (such Local Authority area being referred hereafter to as 'Aberdeen') and other parts of Scotland in the interests of social welfare and improving the conditions of life of the general public and, also, to encourage the wider use of the Facilities by residents of, and visitors to, Aberdeen and Scotland for festivals, concerts, workshops, conferences and events all related to the performing arts. and 3.1.2 to advance the education of the public in the performing arts by presenting, promoting, sponsoring, supporting and assisting in the development of public interest in and awareness of the performing arts within and at the Facilities and in the community through the use of outreach programmes, publications and other media promotion. (The purposes for which the Company is established as set out in subclauses 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 inclusive being hereinafter referred to as 'the Objects of the Company'). | £10,084,550


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The St Anne Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI107495](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107495)]<br>a) Promoting good relations with and between young people and their families, particularly those from communities significantly affected by conflict, diversity or deprivation, by providing a forum which promotes tolerance, respect and mutual understanding, leading to the development of lasting friendships. b) Providing young people with opportunities to develop their musical and performance skills regardless of their social, cultural or religious background. c) Music tuition and participation to further develop young people's education, creativity and self-expression. d) Actively seeking to develop the skills of young artists. e) Promoting the performing arts including public concerts, choirs, recitals, festivals, master classes and workshops. f) Promoting the visual arts by exhibitions and displays of art work including painting, drawing, photography, textiles and craft work and by lectures, tours and seminars. | £1,605
<strong>North Norfolk Festival of Performing Arts</strong> [Charity number: [1038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038110)]<br>To organise and run an annual festival for music dance and speech, to give amateurs the opportunity to perform in public and have the opportunity to be invigilated by professionals to increase their confidence and have the chance to see and hear other performers. | £7,605
<strong>THE GORDON FRASER CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [260869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-260869)]<br>The trustees general favour charities operating in Scotland but not to the exclusion of charities operating solely in England and/or Wales and/or Northern Ireland. The trustees favour organisations involved with the performing arts and those that further the visual arts and museums. | £190,471
<strong>THE DOREEN BIRD FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1073945](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073945)]<br>The objectives of the charity are:To advance the education of the public in the study of performing arts, dance, drama, singing, music and related subjectsTo promote the development of education in performing artsTo promote the development of facilities for the teaching and performance of performing arts, dance, drama, singing and related subjects | £6,157,835
<strong>STEP DEVELOPMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1062058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062058)]<br>Social and economic regeneration of the Stocksbridge and Deepcar community by the provision of community education, ICT training, full nursery day care through its purpose built Children's Centre, managed workspace and virtual office services through its Business Centre and Community and Performing Arts through its award winning hub - The Venue. | £669,345
<strong>BROADSTAIRS DICKENS PLAYERS</strong> [Charity number: [1006530](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1006530)]<br>AMATEUR DRAMATIC SOCIETY WHICH PRODUCES THEATRE PERFORMANCES AND CARRIES OUT OTHER THEATRE ACTIVITIES IN ORDER TO FURTHER THE DRAMATIC ARTS AND DEVELOP PERFORMANCE SKILLS IN SOUTH EAST KENT. | £290
<strong>The Bakehouse Community Arts  </strong> [Charity number: [SC048655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048655)]<br>The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: 4.1 to develop and promote the written, visual and performing arts and crafts and design, and advance skills therein, and undertake other activities that develop cultural understanding and experience and provide community benefit which is wholly inclusive.  | £30,267
<strong>Live Music Now Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC043868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043868)]<br>4(A) The objects for which the Company is established are:-  (i) The advancement of the arts and culture through the promotion of music and other performing arts, in particular among those members of the public who would otherwise be deprived of the benefit of performances of live music and of other performing arts. and (ii) To advance the musical education of musicians at the outset of their careers as performing artists by providing them with support, specialist training and opportunities to complete their practical education by performing and working in public. | £321,616
<strong>GOLHA</strong> [Charity number: [1166627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166627)]<br>The project of finding, collecting archiving digitalizing and making accessible materials related to the performance arts of Iran for posterity | £2,083
<strong>Glasgow Acting Academy (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC045682](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045682)]<br>1. To advance the arts, heritage and culture through the teaching and facilitation of the performing arts to our participants. By offering a variety of different classes, covering all aspects of the performing arts both on the stage and back stage. In doing so Glasgow Acting Academy shall bring the arts to a wider and varied background of participants. 2. To advance the education, learning and understanding of the arts, heritage and culture. By ensuring our performing arts classes and learning facilitation are in accordance with the Curriculum for Excellence (and/or any appropriate educational framework deemed relevant). Glasgow Acting Academy shall offer a student tailored learning, using both informal and formal accredited qualifications. | £138,282
