# Musical theatre `AR304`

Musical theatre is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

338 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(musical theatre|musicals)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 48 | 0.07%
£10k - £100k | 206 | 0.29%
£100k - £250k | 28 | 0.13%
£250k - £500k | 8 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 8 | 0.12%
£1m - £10m | 11 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.22%
Total | 314 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 276 | 0.16%
oscr | 47 | 0.19%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 338 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WALES MILLENNIUM CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1060458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060458)]<br>WMC aims to create a special place which will provide a focal point for the unique culture, identity and talents of Wales though the creation of a world class showcase for musicals, opera, dance, exhibitions, entertainment and education in a millennium landmark, with long lasting benefits for the whole community. | £28,148,648
<strong>Leeds Heritage Theatres</strong> [Charity number: [500408](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500408)]<br>Maintain and develop the Leeds Grand Theatre, City Varieties Music Hall and Hyde Park Picture House. Offer drama, opera, ballet, musicals, comedy, variety, pantomime and arthouse / mainstream films. Increase engagement with performing arts and with heritage of these listed buildings through innovative learning and interpretation programmes. | £14,926,531
<strong>THE AES TRING PARK SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1040330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1040330)]<br>The provision of advancement in general education and specialised performing arts training in dance, drama, musical theatre and music. Training will also cover other forms of theatre, performance, art and any other subjects considered likely to assist students desiring to follow a career in or connected with the arts, colleges and universities specialising in similar subjects. | £14,289,918
<strong>Grand Opera House Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI104605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104605)]<br>The Grand Opera House Trust promotes, maintains, improves and advances the education of the public of Northern Ireland in the arts at the Grand Opera House, Belfast, presenting an outstanding and varied programme of arts, including musicals, ballet, opera, drama, comedy, dance, family shows and pantomime. We support local amateur and professional production companies as well as striving to attract world class theatrical productions to our renowned stage in Belfast and deliver the highest quality artistic productions in an accessible way to the public of Northern Ireland. Careful consideration is given to the accessibility of the theatre to ensure that it is accessible for all, including those from disadvantaged areas and those requiring assistance to attend the theatre. We have an “Access for All Scheme” which includes assisted and relaxed performances and provide circa 3,000 complimentary companion seats to those who require essential assistance to encourage customers with a disability to attend the theatre. In addition to the education of audiences through high quality theatrical performances Grand Opera House Trust provides education and outreach programmes involving schools, community groups and individuals, including workshops, professional classes, talks/seminars and demonstrations. Through its education and outreach programmes the Trust extends the range and reach of its work, often working with disadvantaged communities, and nurtures new talent and skills via participation in our outreach programmes e.g. the Summer Youth Project. The Grand Opera House is an historic listed building. The historic nature of the 1895 Frank Matcham theatre plays an important role in the educational aspect of our work via the promotion of the history and heritage of the theatre and its important role in the life of the city. | £12,193,617
<strong>THE NORTHAMPTON THEATRES TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1075741](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1075741)]<br>Royal & Derngate is the main venue for arts and entertainment in Northamptonshire.  The Theatre offers two auditoria, and Underground, our creativity centre that is home to the Youth theatre and a wide range of creative projects for the local community.  A diverse programme of work includes in-house produced drama and presented music, dance, comedy, children's shows, musical theatre, and opera. | £10,202,263
<strong>THE HAMMOND SCHOOL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1022427](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1022427)]<br>The Hammond is one of 4 UK vocational schools and colleges specialising in musical theatre and dance.  It is a pre-eminent centre of excellence which leads the way in education and performance training. Its mission is to enable all talented young people, regardless of background or financial hardship an opportunity of a life changing experience through its bursary and community outreach schemes. | £6,025,300
<strong>Derry Theatre Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI104797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104797)]<br>The Millennium Forum aspires to be a theatre engaged with the community and for community, delivering a balanced, high quality arts and entertainment programme whilst playing an active part in the conference and meetings market. The Millennium Forum delivers a programme that thoroughly entertains and satisfies the audience right across the Theatre’s catchment while ensuring maximum box office income at minimum cost to the Theatre with no apparent diminution of standards. The Theatre presents live performances of plays, musicals, opera, dance, comedy acts, children shows and various genres of music, provides hire facilities for local groups (drama, musical, dance), provides an all in one leisure facility in the form of theatre, restaurant and bar facilities, make main stage facilities available to local artists and arts organisations at appropriate times ensuring that the cost is not prohibitive. In advancement of education, the Theatre produces an annual Youth Musical and Interact Festival. | £5,716,305
<strong>BLACKPOOL GRAND THEATRE (ARTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1022754](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1022754)]<br>The presentation of performances to a paid attendance of theatregoers.Performances comprised of Musicals, Pantomine, Variety, Ballet, Children's Theatre and Drama. | £5,271,110
<strong>Dundee Rep and Scottish Dance Theatre Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC017315](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017315)]<br>2.1 The company will promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes primarily by:- 2.1.1 leasing, owning, constructing, managing and maintaining a theatre (or theatres). 2.1.2 encouraging and creating opportunities to create, produce, promote, stage and showcase performances (whether theatre, musicals, drama, opera, dance or any other form) for/to the public at fair and reasonable prices, and in doing so produce and promote local and Scottish work as well as presenting performances and productions from international companies and individuals whether in Dundee or elsewhere (including touring internationally, work created by the Company in Dundee). 2.1.3 working with others in the sphere of arts and culture. 2.1.4 recognising the wider educational, community and social benefits that can be achieved through arts and culture activities and delivering and collaborating on such activities. and 2.1.5 providing opportunities for training in and the study of arts and culture.  | £4,310,076
<strong>Alhambra Theatre Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039817](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039817)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are to advance, promote, improve, develop, and maintain appreciation of and activities in the arts and the education of the public in the arts by the provision and maintenance of a theatre for the presentation and staging of plays, operas, musicals and other arts activities and to facilitate access by the general public to the arts including but not limited to, the arts of drama, ballet, music, singing, dancing, literature, sculpture, craft, and painting and to provide, develop, maintain, manage, upgrade, restore and make available a theatre as a base for the preparation, establishment, development, and furtherance of schemes and activities for said arts, and to produce, direct, organise, stage and develop plays, artistic productions and other arts activities generally including, without Limitation, in the said areas of the arts. | £3,170,171


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BUNNETT-MUIR MUSICAL THEATRE ARCHIVE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1141958](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141958)]<br>To preserve, maintain and add to the Musical Theatre Collection and ensure that it is accessible to the public.  In this it will advance the arts and heritage of Musical Theatre for the benefit of the public. | £4,412
<strong>JUNE GRACE PEGRAM-MACLEAN CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1209967](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209967)]<br>The Trust's activities are to fund individuals who are members of registered dance schools / companies, or to fund organisations, throughout the United Kingdom in the learning and teaching of their chosen field of dance, as well as that associated with Ballet, TV, Film, Theatre, Musicals, etc. | £1,000,000
<strong>GATESHEAD MUSICAL THEATRE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1181323](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181323)]<br>Producing and performing musical productions with the company, providing an opportunity for both males and females of all ages, abilities and backgrounds with full inclusion and without discrimination through performing arts, dance, drama and music.To encourage all members to reach their full potential in a safe and caring environment and cultivate and encourage public appreciation of the arts. | £28,627
<strong>THE STOURBRIDGE AMATEUR OPERATIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [511436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511436)]<br>Producing musicals for the public of Stourbridge and surrounding area.  To assist, educate and encourage young people to perform and enjoy the dramatic and operatic arts. | £65,979
<strong>THE PRESENT HELP SANCTUARY (OF GOD) MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1129551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129551)]<br>In-House/Organisational Spiritual and Social care and development of membersCommunity outreach through organised get-togethers (musicals, feastings and biblical counseling)Giving aids/donations to assist Families and People in distress/areas of disastersSupporting other charitable organisations such as those caring for orphans, widows, less-priviledged,etc. | £1
<strong>Derry Theatre Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI104797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104797)]<br>The Millennium Forum aspires to be a theatre engaged with the community and for community, delivering a balanced, high quality arts and entertainment programme whilst playing an active part in the conference and meetings market. The Millennium Forum delivers a programme that thoroughly entertains and satisfies the audience right across the Theatre’s catchment while ensuring maximum box office income at minimum cost to the Theatre with no apparent diminution of standards. The Theatre presents live performances of plays, musicals, opera, dance, comedy acts, children shows and various genres of music, provides hire facilities for local groups (drama, musical, dance), provides an all in one leisure facility in the form of theatre, restaurant and bar facilities, make main stage facilities available to local artists and arts organisations at appropriate times ensuring that the cost is not prohibitive. In advancement of education, the Theatre produces an annual Youth Musical and Interact Festival. | £5,716,305
<strong>BRIDPORT MUSICAL THEATRE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1198998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198998)]<br>Musical Theatre production | £47,405
<strong>CALDER VALLEY YOUTH THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [1152563](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152563)]<br>Members (aged 8 - 18) attend regular rehearsals to prepare for performances up to 3 times per week; perform in a majorannual musical theatre production and in smaller concerts through the year as well as fundraising activities. Young people are also encouraged to help with productions in other ways e.g. costumes, make-up and print and gain useful experience in areas they are studying. | 
<strong>Portadown Phoenix Players</strong> [Charity number: [NI107687](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107687)]<br>The Society aims to advance education and to promote the dramatic and operatic arts to the benefit of the public of the Armada, Banbridge and Craigavon Council area by promoting participation in the performing arts by adults and young people. By so doing, the Society proposes to educate the public in the dramatic and operatic arts and to further the development of public appreciation and taste in said arts. Portadown Phoenix Players advances its purposes of “educating the public in the dramatic and operatic arts” and “furthering the development of public appreciation and taste in the said arts” by organising at least one musical and one dramatic production each year staged over several nights, and by participating in amateur drama festivals locally using programmes and programme material to enhance the audience experience and by promoting participation in the performing arts by adults and young people. Meetings to decide on productions, where possible choosing challenging and less frequently performed material, and to develop these to the point of performance, take place throughout the year, working with director, m.d., choreographer and costume/lighting/stage crew. Workshops with experienced performers allow skills to be developed in performance, stagecraft, costume and set design and preparation, and make up. Such participation contributes to members’ personal development and allows self-esteem and confidence to be nurtured. Members in the past have progressed to professional work in stage, television, dance, musical performance and musical theatre. | £24,521
<strong>MPO MUSICAL THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [1218236](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1218236)]<br>1. TO ADVANCE, IMPROVE, DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN PUBLIC EDUCATION IN, AND APPRECIATION OF, THE ART AND SCIENCE OF MUSIC IN ALL ITS ASPECTS BY ANY MEANS THE MEMBERS SEE FIT, INCLUDING THROUGH THE PRESENTATION OF PUBLIC CONCERTS AND RECITALS; 2. TO FURTHER SUCH CHARITABLE PURPOSE OR PURPOSES AS THE MEMBERS IN THEIR ABSOLUTE DISCRETION SHALL THINK FIT BUT IN PARTICULAR THROUGH THE MAKING OF GRANTS AND DONATIONS. | 
