# Dance `AR302`

Dance is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

2,581 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.27% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(danc(e|ing)|ballet|ballroom)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 654 | 0.92%
£10k - £100k | 1,198 | 1.71%
£100k - £250k | 281 | 1.27%
£250k - £500k | 135 | 1.25%
£500k - £1m | 85 | 1.27%
£1m - £10m | 94 | 1.04%
Over £10m | 23 | 1.06%
Total | 2,470 | 1.29%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,070 | 1.21%
oscr | 285 | 1.15%
ccni | 226 | 3.14%
Total | 2,581 | 1.27%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL OPERA HOUSE COVENT GARDEN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [211775](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211775)]<br>Presentation of opera and ballet performances at the Royal Opera House Covent Garden and tours in the United Kingdom and overseas | £181,942,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £30,684,000
<strong>TRINITY LABAN CONSERVATOIRE OF MUSIC AND DANCE</strong> [Charity number: [309998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309998)]<br>Specialist, practice-based higher education to equip students for successful careers as performers, composers and choreographers in the fields of music and contemporary dance.Lifelong learning opportunities in dance and music.Outreach and community-based projects.Promotion of research and scholarship to advance the art forms of music and dance.Provision of music and dance performances. | £28,454,852
<strong>WALES MILLENNIUM CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1060458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060458)]<br>WMC aims to create a special place which will provide a focal point for the unique culture, identity and talents of Wales though the creation of a world class showcase for musicals, opera, dance, exhibitions, entertainment and education in a millennium landmark, with long lasting benefits for the whole community. | £23,077,889
<strong>ENGLISH NATIONAL BALLET</strong> [Charity number: [214005](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214005)]<br>The primary objective of the Charity remains to present productions of classical ballet of the highest quality within England and around the world, with particular emphasis on access to these performances to the widest possible audience through affordable pricing, touring to different venues in England and attractive repertoire. | £22,936,000
<strong>ROYAL ACADEMY OF DANCE</strong> [Charity number: [312826](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312826)]<br>The Royal Academy of Dance is a registration organisation for dance teachers, a Higher Education provider for aspiring dance teachers, an Awarding Organisation leading to proficiency in dance at a high level; and  the owner of Benesh Movement Notation; and through these provides dance training, dance teacher education, and dance assessment services to students and teachers. : | £21,726,000
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £20,113,488
<strong>THE THEATRE ROYAL BATH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [277723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277723)]<br>To promote, maintain, improve and advance education particularly by the production of educational plays and the encouragement of the Arts including the arts of drama, ballet, music, literature, sculpture and painting, particularly but not exclusively for children and young people | £18,835,473
<strong>BIRMINGHAM ROYAL BALLET</strong> [Charity number: [1061012](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1061012)]<br>Birmingham Royal Ballet seeks to be the UK's foremost international ballet company, enriching people's lives through dance, and aspiring to excellence in all that it does | £17,643,267
<strong>Edinburgh International Festival Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC004694](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004694)]<br>To promote and encourage the arts, especially opera, plays, dramas, ballet and music, and the study of the arts and, for these purposes, to organise, promote, manage and conduct festivals of music, dramas and other entertainments in Edinburgh or elsewhere annually or at such longer intervals as the Company may determine. | £16,586,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PARACHUTE REGIMENTAL ASSOCIATION CROYDON BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1124192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124192)]<br>We have a social meeting every last Tuesday of the month where ex-airborne soldiers can meet and talk about old war stories. We also arrange memorial trips to Normandy and Arnhem for our ex WW2 Vets plus having a few social evenings, such as an Xmas Dance, a summer BBQ and a race night when it is possible. We also make donations to other military deserving causes. | £9,694
<strong>LIGHTHALL AREA YOUTH & COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [508601](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508601)]<br>To offer people of all ages within the local community facilities for line dancing, ballet classes, kick boxing, childcare, and other traiing opportunites for people.  To facilitate comminuty evenings, briinging  Families together within the local area, and to offer volunteer opportunites for people to help in supporting these events. | £53,679
<strong>Fountain Street Community Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI107634](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107634)]<br>The Organisation engages with the Strabane Neighbourhood Partnership and other local providers to agree priority interventions and develop/deliver programmes within their area of service delivery. FSCDA will continue to build on existing partnerships, using a multi agency /disciplinary approach in order to meet the multiple needs of the residents living in this particular neighbourhood renewal area. To date FSCDA has met with 40 external agencies and services in order to meet this aim. Our objectives are clearly set out with the following the activities are as follows Community Bonding Projects - Weekly Music Classes, Weekly Dance Classes, Messy Play Events, Community Fun Days, Seasonal Bingos, Seasonal Youth Camps, Kids Confidence Bootcamp, Annual Seniors Dinner,Community day Trips, Seasonal Family Events E.g- Christmas grotto, Halloween Burn Walk, Easter Fayre. Volunteer Programme - we currently have 40 volunteers ,2 of whom are disabled, who are involved with various projects that we run. Formal & Informal Training Qualifications- with our interactive digital suite we offer a various training qualifications, in addition we can offer affordable childcare places to parents through our on-site Sure Start facilities. Advice NI also deliver a weekly outreach service in our centre, this offers advice and guidance to local residents and people living within the local outer area on benefits, Welfare Reform, Housing etc. Our 2 Social Enterprise Projects , New2U Charity Shop- enables local people to secure affordable clothing and household items. This shop relies soley on public donations and volunteers. Our Fountain of Fun Party facilitation Project allows parents and families on low incomes.. affordable venue and party hire. Our Healthy Lifestyle projects include, Men & Womens Yoga, Mindfulness, young mothers fitness programme, Kids Confidence bootcamps, Couch to 5k programme, Mens Health Programme, outdoor Environmental project. | £178,323
<strong>An Tobar and Mull Theatre</strong> [Charity number: [SC042883](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042883)]<br>3.1 The charitable purposes of the SCIO (“the Charitable Purposes”) are: 3.1.1 To advance the arts, heritage and culture for the benefit of the public, in particular the communities of Mull, Iona and associated Islands, by producing and delivering high quality work across a range of art forms including, but not limited to, professional theatre, music, dance and visual art. 3.1.2 to advance education by promoting the study, knowledge and public understanding of the arts, in particular, but not limited to, the appreciation of Scottish island art and culture. and 3.1.3 to advance community development, in so far as the SCIO will. (i) provide a community facility and creative hub for the benefit of the public, (ii) support and work with other charities and voluntary organisations, and (iii) have regard to social and economic issues when advancing and promoting its Charitable Purposes. | £654,423
<strong>THREE LEGGED CROSS VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [226557](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226557)]<br>Line dancing, dog training, short mat bowls,  yoga, art, West country embroidery,  pilates,  Oddfellows,  town council meetings, Age Concern, social events. | £11,265
<strong>Royal Scottish Country Dance Society Dumfries Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC023375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023375)]<br>The objects of the Local Association shall be to advance the education and engagement of the public in the area of Dumfries and its neighbourhood (hereinafter called ‘the District’), in traditional Scottish Country Dancing, in particular by:- a) supporting and promoting the work of the RSCDS. b) preserving and furthering the practice of traditional Scottish Country Dances. c) providing or assisting in providing instruction in the dancing of Scottish Country Dances. d) promoting the enjoyment and appreciation of Scottish Country Dancing and Music by any suitable means. e) conduct its business in line with the commitments it has given in its License Agreement with the Society | £14,947
<strong>MIDLAND FINE ARTS AND LANGUAGE ACADEMY</strong> [Charity number: [1148038](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148038)]<br>MFALA is Open to everyone across the United Kingdom Specially in Midlands,Also MFALA is providing classes for children in subjects that are not taught at their school Eg. Mother-Tongue language and other languages, Culture and Heritage, Dance, Music, Musical Instruments, Art etc and support the children in a friendly and cultural environment taking account of their cultural and language needs. | £61,408
<strong>Communicado Productions Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC032826](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032826)]<br>To advance public education by the encouragement of the performing arts, including without limiting the foregoing, the arts of drama, ballet, dance, mime, music and opera. | 
<strong>ALL SAINTS YOUTH AND COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [515967](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515967)]<br>Our Centre is used by Rainbows, Brownies, Guides,Rangers, Otters, Cubs, Scouts, a Dance Group, 3 church groups and anyone from the local community who wishes to hire the Centre for activities. | £8,742
<strong>Centre For Contemporary Arts</strong> [Charity number: [SC020734](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC020734)]<br>The objects of the Centre are to promote, maintain, improve and advance public education in the Arts for the benefit of the community by establishing a Centre or Centres in Glasgow, Scotland, and elsewhere, for the presentation for the public of Music, Opera, Ballet, Drama, the visual Arts, Films, Video, Sound, Exhibitions of all kinds as are conducive to the promotion, maintenance, improvement and advancement of education or to the encouragement of the Arts, whether on premises owned or leased by the Centre, which objects shall be exclusively charitable.    | £1,369,401
