# Music `AR303`

Music is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Arts](AR.md) categoryand the Performing art subcategory.

9,458 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.65% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(music(al)?|brass bands?|concerts?|bagpipes?|organists?|drumming|hymns?|musicians?|flute|guitar|piano|bellringers?|violin(ists?)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,138 | 4.41%
£10k - £100k | 4,274 | 6.07%
£100k - £250k | 715 | 3.19%
£250k - £500k | 370 | 3.34%
£500k - £1m | 201 | 2.88%
£1m - £10m | 258 | 2.81%
Over £10m | 50 | 2.22%
Total | 9,006 | 4.65%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 7,720 | 4.50%
oscr | 1,340 | 5.37%
ccni | 398 | 5.69%
Total | 9,458 | 4.65%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CORPORATION OF THE HALL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES</strong> [Charity number: [254543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-254543)]<br>To maintain the Royal Albert Hall, a Grade I listed building of historical and cultural significance and, through its use, to promote the understanding, appreciation and enjoyment of the Arts and Sciences. | £60,524,982
<strong>The Associated Board of the Royal Schools of Music</strong> [Charity number: [SC043343](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043343)]<br>The objects of the Board are:- (a) the advancement of the arts sciences and skills of music, speech and drama throughout the United Kingdom and overseas. (b) the promotion of education and instruction III and the study and appreciation of music, speech and drama and the dissemination of knowledge concerning the same. | £50,899,000
<strong>THE ASSOCIATED BOARD OF THE ROYAL SCHOOLS OF MUSIC</strong> [Charity number: [292182](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292182)]<br>ABRSM motivates musical achievement through internationally recognised examination and assessment of students, professional development of teachers and provision of published resources and online learning via its websites, apps and audio and video resources. ABRSM makes significant donations towards music education each year including scholarships to the four Royal Schools of Music. | £50,899,000
<strong>ST PETER'S COLLEGE (OTHERWISE KNOWN AS WESTMINSTER SCHOOL)</strong> [Charity number: [312728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312728)]<br>Westminster School is a public boarding school for young persons. The aims encompass this object and have been extended over a number of years to accommodate day pupils and girls. It now educates children from 7 through to 18 and aims to widen access as much as possible. It also aims to provide excellence in sporting and extra-curricular activities, notably artistic, musical and social skills. | £46,101,000
<strong>THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF MUSIC</strong> [Charity number: [309268](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309268)]<br>The objects of the College shall be to advance the Art of Music and promote the study of andeducation in music and musical instruction and research of the highest standard and such otherrelated academic subjects as the College may consider appropriate in the United Kingdom ofGreat Britain and Northern Ireland and elsewhere throughout the world. | £41,057,000
<strong>ROYAL ACADEMY OF MUSIC</strong> [Charity number: [310007](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310007)]<br>To provide pre-professional, undergraduate and postgraduate musical training of the highest national and international standards. | £33,157,000
<strong>Royal Conservatoire of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC015855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015855)]<br>The objects for which the Company (also hereinafter called 'the Institution') is established are to conduct the Royal Conservatoire of Scotland, whether in Glasgow or elsewhere, as a national and international academy and conservatoire for, inter alia, music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts, to advance learning, knowledge and excellence, by teaching, research, performance and study, in particular, but without limitation, in the fields of music, dance, film, television and the dramatic arts and related fields, to provide instruction in such branches of learning as the Company may think fit and to make provision for research and performance and for the dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the Company may determine, and to act as a cultural centre and artistic stimulus for the community at large and in furtherance thereof.  | £32,273,000
<strong>TRINITY LABAN CONSERVATOIRE OF MUSIC AND DANCE</strong> [Charity number: [309998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309998)]<br>Specialist, practice-based higher education to equip students for successful careers as performers, composers and choreographers in the fields of music and contemporary dance.Lifelong learning opportunities in dance and music.Outreach and community-based projects.Promotion of research and scholarship to advance the art forms of music and dance.Provision of music and dance performances. | £31,610,789
<strong>TAUNTON SCHOOL EDUCATIONAL CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1081420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081420)]<br>Advancing education for girls and boys age 2 to 18 both day and boarding.  Adding the maximum value to help most pupils achieve excellent exam results and enabling all to maximise their potential.  Helping pupils to be 'Ready for Life' through many co-curricular activities including; debating, music, drama and sport. | £30,542,000
<strong>THE LONDON SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [232391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232391)]<br>The principal activity of the LSO is the provision of a Symphony Orchestra for high quality musical performances, broadcasting and recordings and supporting this work with a music education programme designed to reach a wide range of people. | £28,805,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Saltcoats Ardrossan And Stevenston Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029969](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029969)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £27,304
<strong>The Clutha Trust SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC045120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045120)]<br>3.1 The Charitable Purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are: 3.1.1 to advance the arts and culture for public benefit. 3.1.2 the prevention or relief of poverty. 3.1.3 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. and 3.1.4 the advancement of citizenship and community development, by (a) enabling the public to become involved in the arts generally and particularly (but not exclusively) in relation to music, performances and festivals. (b) holding, managing and promoting musical performances and festivals both by and for those who are disadvantaged. (c) providing relief and assistance to those in need or experiencing poverty. (d) managing and providing working, meeting and event spaces for community organisations and charities. and (e) assisting other charities in their projects of any kind which are in pursuit of the Charitable Purposes of the SCIO. | £1,098,639
<strong>The Hugh Andrew Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC050273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050273)]<br>3. Purposes of the Trust The Trustees shall hold and apply the Trust Fund and income thereof in accordance with the following purposes:-  3.1. To support such charitable bodies that advance the rural and cultural heritage of the Highlands and Islands of Scotland. This will include the preservation, restoration, maintenance and upkeep of any land, buildings, contents and artefacts of particular historic or cultural importance, including any modern reconstructions intended to educate the general public.  3.2. The advancement of the arts by seeking to expand the repertoire of classical music recordings and re-recordings for the enjoyment and benefit of the general public in Scotland and elsewhere. In doing so, the trustees shall where possible, support and encourage the recordings to be made with new and talented young musicians. and  3.3. The advancement and support of community projects in Mull chosen at the Trustees’ discretion that will be of benefit to the local and wider communities and which will meet the requirements of the charity test as set out in section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | 
<strong>YEOVIL CHAMBER CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1087037](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087037)]<br>Performing a high standard of choral chamber music in towns and villages in Somerset and Dorset | £5,759
<strong>Kemnay Academy Music Association - Kama</strong> [Charity number: [SC025696](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC025696)]<br>To give financial and organisational support to music groups or bands developed from individual musicians within the music department of Kemnay Academy.  To support the Head of Music in developing these groups or bands through concerts and tours designed to both expand the musicians cultural and musical horizons: and to contribute to the social structure of the local community. | £1
<strong>INTRA</strong> [Charity number: [1210371](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210371)]<br>Working in Camden, our mission is to help secondary students from all backgrounds find the joy in making music with others, acquire professional skills and access the music industry. | £49,188
<strong>OF ONE ACCORD-MIXED VOICE CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1128019](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128019)]<br>Performance of choral music at private functions, weddings and other concerts as required.Raising funds for local charities. | £9,582
<strong>Jazz Scotland Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC035566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC035566)]<br>To advance the education of the public in the art of Jazz and related musics and in furtherance thereof shall seek:  (1) To organise and support concerts, competitions, events, recordings, publications and research involving or related to the music.  (2) To provide facilities for the performance of the music in public.  (3) To promote the study, practice and development of such music.  (4) To promote and provide workshops.  (5) To carry on any other activities which further these objects. | £220,078
<strong>Laxdale Gaelic Choir</strong> [Charity number: [SC015699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015699)]<br>The object of the Choir shall be to provide in the interest of social welfare, facilities and assistance to all persons who may have an interest in the furterhance of music, the Gaelic language and the culture which attaches thereto.  Competitions at a local or national level which may be of assistance to the foregoing shall also serve an as object of the Choir. | 
<strong>SOUTHEND CHORAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [277214](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277214)]<br>PROMOTES CONCERTS. HELP EDUCATE THE PUBLIC WITH CLASSICAL MUSIC AND HELP THEM TO SING WITH US | £17,194
