# League of Friends `AS104`

League of Friends is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) category.

8,412 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(league of friends|friends of)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,863 | 6.46%
£10k - £100k | 2,784 | 4.08%
£100k - £250k | 183 | 0.88%
£250k - £500k | 81 | 0.82%
£500k - £1m | 50 | 0.81%
£1m - £10m | 50 | 0.59%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.29%
Total | 8,017 | 4.20%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 7,781 | 4.57%
oscr | 437 | 1.75%
ccni | 194 | 2.70%
Total | 8,412 | 4.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE ELDERLY</strong> [Charity number: [226064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226064)]<br>The charity offers residential, nursing and dementia care to older people in care homes on nine sites across England. We operate day care centres and a free-to-access grants service for individuals, and work to combat the devastating effects of loneliness among older people. Our vision is for a society in which all older people have the opportunity to live fulfilled lives. | £21,841,000
<strong>SOCIETY OF FRIENDS OF THE TORAH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140838](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140838)]<br>The principal activity of the Society is the operation of a voucher system whereby the donorgifts to the Society amounts under the Gift Aid Scheme. The Society is able to recover the taxupon the gift thereby increasing the amount available for distribution to the recipient charity. | £20,845,155
<strong>The Ayrshire Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC011390](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011390)]<br>The principal objects for which the Company is established are:- To provide specialist palliative care and services to people and families affected by life-limiting illness and to promote the advancement of palliative care and end of life care and to promote the hospice movement, all whether in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or elsewhere in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining Hospices in Scotland and by providing palliative nursing, medical, allied healthcare professionals and other supportive care services to any person (without regard to religion, race, creed, gender or sexual orientation) who is (at any age) diagnosed with a life limiting condition and by providing medical or other treatment services and attention for any such person anywhere (including the patient’s home). (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or life limiting illnesses and the provision of specialist palliative and end of life care. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied health or social services, or employed or volunteering to work for the Company and its associated partner agencies. This may also include members of the community in a caring role. (D) By providing and assisting as required the provision of multi-faith religious belief support and by providing pastoral care services for the spiritual welfare and support of patients, carers and relatives and friends of patients and carers and those employed or volunteering to work for the Company but also the wider community. (E) By providing counselling services and practical care and support for patients and carers, relatives and friends of patients and carers for those employed or volunteering to work for the Company or to any other person of any age impacted by the death of a family member. (F) By operating as a charity raising funds by any legal and appropriate means. | £13,811,320
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE EARTH CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [281681](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281681)]<br>Friends of the Earth Charitable Trust is committed to the conservation, protection and improvement of the environment. It promotes sustainable development for the public benefit by funding work that includes campaigning, research, education and publishing, and the provision of information on environmental problems and their solutions. | £12,766,793
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THE ROYAL ACADEMY</strong> [Charity number: [272926](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-272926)]<br>The objects of the Friends of the Royal Academy are:- to support the charitable work of the Royal Academy of Arts- to promote and to co-operate with the Academy and other charitable organisations in promoting the Arts and in particular the arts of design and the creation and appreciation of the arts | £12,024,165
<strong>Strathcarron Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC006704](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006704)]<br>1. To promote the relief of suffering (so far as such purpose is charitable) in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining and conducting Residential Nursing Homes and Hospices (hereinafter referred to as a Hospice the singular being understood to include the plural) in Scotland for the reception and care of persons of either sex (without regard to race or creed) who are suffering (at any age) from any chronic or terminal illness or from any disability or disease associated with or attributable to old age or from any other physical or mental infirmity and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons in their own homes. (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or terminal illnesses. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of any persons engaged in any medical or paramedical field and particularly in the training of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services, and in the teaching or training of students in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services. (D) By assisting or encouraging the provision of spiritual help and guidance in accordance with the teaching and example of Christ for any persons resident (either as patients or otherwise) or working in the Hospice. (E) By providing a counselling service and practical care and support for the relatives and friends of patients in or connected with the  Hospice. | £10,563,333
<strong>BRITISH FRIENDS OF THE HEBREW UNIVERSITY OF JERUSALEM</strong> [Charity number: [209691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209691)]<br>The BFHU is a national, non-profit organisation dedicated to supporting, marketing and promoting the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, and to raising awareness of its global contribution. | £7,717,264
<strong>FRIENDS OF MERCAZ HATORAH BELZ MACNIVKA</strong> [Charity number: [1126075](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126075)]<br>The primary purpose of the charity is to support the charitable activities of the Mercaz Hatorah Belz Mcnivka in Jerusalem, Israel. Other charitable activities include the relief of poverty, hardship and distress amongst residents of Israel and the advancement of the Orthodox Jewish education. | £7,492,213
<strong>Victim Support Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002138](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002138)]<br>4.1 to reduce the distress and disadvantageous effects on victims and witnesses of crime and other forms of harmful behaviour having similar effects to crime, including on the families and friends of such persons and others affected to the extent that they are in need of such emotional & practical support. and 4.2 to advance public education and awareness in relation to the impact of crime and other forms of harmful behaviour having similar effects to crime, on all those affected and to champion the rights of victims and witnesses and all others affected by crime  | £7,308,896
<strong>THE ST PETER AND ST JAMES CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1056114](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1056114)]<br>To provide specialist short & longer-term integrated palliative & end of life care to people with terminal & life limiting conditions in Sussex. To provide pre & post bereavement care and support to the families & friends of our patients. To provide specialist support, advice & education to patients, families, health care professionals & other providers in respect of palliative & end of life care. | £5,613,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE FALMOUTH HOSPITALS</strong> [Charity number: [213983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213983)]<br>We raise money in the Falmouth and Penryn area for the benefit of patients - currently the advancement of health or saving lives, children and young people, elderlyand old and the general public. | £1,091
<strong>FRIENDS OF CHARLECOTE CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1086469](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086469)]<br>Maintenance of St. Leonard's Church, Charlecote, Warwickshire. | £3,382
<strong>FRIENDS OF SHEARIM</strong> [Charity number: [1087281](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087281)]<br>WE RAISE FUNDS FOR A LADIES SEMINARY BASED IN ISRAEL. THE SEMINARY IS OPEN TO ALL JEWISH LADIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD. THE LADIES ARE RAISED AND EDUCATED WITHIN THE LAWS OF ORTHODOX JEWRY. THE FUNDS ARE USED TO GET LADIES TO THE SEMINARY AND SUBSCRIBE THEIR HOUSING AND EDUCATION. | £34,084
<strong>Saint Patrick Visitor Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100446)]<br>The Saint Patrick Centre Ltd promotes the local and national heritage of Saint Patrick in Downpatrick, County Down, creating access for all of the communities of Northern Ireland to learn, explore and celebrate the important historical and cultural legacy of our Patron Saint irrespective of their faith, politics, cultural background and physical or mental ability. The Centre provides a cross community education programme for children and community organisations which demonstrates our common Christian Heritage in Northern Ireland through Saint Patrick. It also provides an important venue for local artists and craftspeople to display and sell their products. As the only permanent exhibition in the world about Ireland's Patron Saint and one of five signature projects created to bring increased awareness and prosperity to Northern Ireland through tourism it is a major cultural asset for future generations and the key element to the 95 mile Saint Parick's Driving Trail and the new 75 mile Saint Patrick's Walking Trail, which starts in armagh and ends at the Saint Patrick Centre. The Saint Patrick Centre also has developed a separate support organisation called the 'Friends of Saint Patrick' which operate in chapters throughout North America under their own 501c3 Charitable Status. The groups are set up to learn more about Northern Ireland and Saint Patrick. They work 'In the Spirit of Saint Patrick' every March by collecting food for the homeless in their areas as part of the Saint Patrick's Day activities in Phoenix, Minnesota, Milwaukee, Tampa, Toronto, Albany and Pittsburg. | £681,261
<strong>THE ASSOCIATION OF THE FRIENDS OF ST GILES' CHURCH CRIPPLEGATE</strong> [Charity number: [247575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-247575)]<br>To assist in preserving, repairing and enriching the fabric and furniture of St Giles Church without Cripplegate in the City of London and its organ etc. | £2,488
<strong>FRIENDS OF KING'S COLLEGE LONDON MATHS SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1167583](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167583)]<br>The charity will hold regular meetings, in which it will consider:a) Requests from the Head of Schoolb) Requests from those associated with the CharityThe regular meetings will also monitor how the resources have been used and the effectiveness of the projects. | £24,326
<strong>FRIENDS OF NAHALAT MOSHE</strong> [Charity number: [327229](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327229)]<br>To provide support for a Talmudical College known as Nahalat Moshe  in Jerusalem ,Israel and to promote the Orthodox Jewish religion and religious education and to also provide support for indigent students of the college. | £82,605
<strong>FRIENDS OF CASTLE BATCH SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1056446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1056446)]<br>Fundraising events within the school | £6,706
<strong>UK FRIENDS OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE WELLBEING OF ISRAEL'S SOLDIERS</strong> [Charity number: [1084272](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084272)]<br>The principal objects of the charity are:1) The relief of need and suffering of serving and discharged Israeli soldiers and their families2) The advancement of education of serving and discharged Israeli soldiers3) to provide or assist in the provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare. | £727,437
<strong>FRIENDS OF MARGAM PARK</strong> [Charity number: [1179411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179411)]<br>The Friends of Margam Park objectives  are to conserve and enhance Margam Country Park, protect its natural beauty, raise the parks profile, increase public awareness and work with the Local Authority as well as other appropriate organisations. The Friends provide walks and tours with an historical interest, in the summer months together with other activities on a voluntary basis. | £30,756
