# Women's Institute `AS107`

Women's Institute is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](/data/ukcat/AS) category.

2,112 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.05% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(wom(a|e)n(\'|\’)?s institutes?|W.?I.?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,567 | 1.87%
£10k - £100k | 465 | 0.73%
£100k - £250k | 39 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 10 | 0.11%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 6 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.06%
Total | 2,095 | 1.10%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,001 | 1.18%
oscr | 90 | 0.35%
ccni | 21 | 0.30%
Total | 2,112 | 1.05%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WORLD MISSION AGENCY - WINNERS CHAPEL INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1134421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134421)]<br>Our activities are designed to offer a unique spiritual atmosphere of peace and joy as a result of the presence of God. Our services also focused on releasing God's blessings upon His people. They are destiny moulding, which takes place every Sunday and Wednesday and attendees are taught how to win over challenges of life, provoke divine intervention and the blessing of God in their lives. | £11,207,252
<strong>THE NATIONAL FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S INSTITUTES OF ENGLAND, WALES, JERSEY, GUERNSEY AND THE ISLE OF MAN</strong> [Charity number: [803793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803793)]<br>Provides national coordination for the WI organisation; advances the education of women and girls in important local and national political and social issues, music, drama and other cultural subjects, agriculture, crafts, home economics, science, health and social welfare; promotes sustainable development; advances health and advances citizenship by promoting civic responsibility and volunteering. | £3,619,477
<strong>Agapé Ministries Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC042332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042332)]<br>(a) To transmit propagate and communicate the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to students and  others at Universities Colleges Schools and other academic institutions as well as to the public at large by means of public meetings lectures assemblies interviews and personal conversation. by television telerecording sound broadcasting cinematograph films gramophone recordings and recitals and by any other system of sound or picture reproduction whatsoever. by pamphlets leaflets news sheets books posters magazines periodicals advertising and all other literary matter calculated to advance the objects set forth above and generally to spread the Gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to students and others by all and any other means whatsoever. (b) To help those who become Christians through receiving the Lord Jesus, Christ as Saviour and Lord to grow toward spiritual maturity and understanding and to train them to reach others with the Gospel the objective being the fulfilment of the Great Commission of our Lord Jesus Christ. (c) To help Christians to become established as active members of local Churches and to work closely with Churches of many denominations as a co-operative evangelistic arm in helping to win men build men and send men for Christ in the evangelization of the world. (c) (i) To relieve poverty or distress in furtherance of the Christian Faith. | £3,599,544
<strong>THE ACCESS PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1143011](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143011)]<br>We help motivated students from disadvantaged backgrounds win places at top universities. | £2,813,619
<strong>THE WHITEHALL AND INDUSTRY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1061584](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1061584)]<br>WIG is an independent,not-for-profit membership organisation that builds understanding and co-operation between the public,private and voluntary sectors by connecting top leaders to create better-informed policy, share best practice and enhance leadership across all sectors for the greater public good. It achieves this through a comprehensive programme of events, placements and training. | £2,347,242
<strong>WEARSIDE WOMEN IN NEED</strong> [Charity number: [1181932](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181932)]<br>WWiN provides a range of direct community support services and supported accommodation for adults and children affected by domestic abuse.The Charity also delivers a range of prevention services:(i) Direct work with perpetrators of domestic abuse(ii) Delivery of training, awareness raising and community engagement (iii) Advocacy and support  to family and friends | £1,688,185
<strong>Aware Defeat Depression</strong> [Charity number: [NI100561](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100561)]<br>We are the only mental health charity in N.I. that deals exclusively with depression. We deliver services to people with depression, bipolar disorder and their carers, including support groups, information literature, a listening ear service and access to our programmes which promote the relief of depression, bipolar and other mood disorders. We also use information to educate the public about depression in order to increase understanding and remove the stigma associated with the illness. We deliver programmes that reduce the risk of people becoming depressed and deliver these programmes into communities, schools and other settings. We also carry out research into depression and use the evidence produced to improve our services. We support families, carers and friends of those with depression through our services and information. Depression currently affects one in four of us in Northern Ireland. As depression is implicated in 75% of suicides and is an illness which gets worse if not diagnosed and treated promptly, our aim is primarily to save lives and then to create a society where no-one feels too ashamed to ask for help with their depression and where those with depression can find the help they need to get better, without having to wait to see a specialist. We also want to see good mental health promoted as a matter of course to everyone as a basic human right. Our current services comprise • Self-help support groups • Helpline • Living Life to the Full workshops • Mood Matters depression awareness training • Public Information/Community Outreach programme, including Hope4HealthRoadshows • Comprehensive range of free information titles and publications on depression • Volunteer recruitment and training • Fundraising | £1,364,868
<strong>WATERAID INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1137900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137900)]<br>WaterAid international (WAi) brings together the international group of WaterAid organisations to develop a global response to the world's water and sanitation crisis. WAi will help to consolidate relationships between WaterAid organisations  and ensure that these organisations share a common vision, mission and values, as well as ensure greater coordination of strategy and policy. | £1,180,000
<strong>Newry And Mourne Co-Operative Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102246)]<br>Newry & Mourne Co-operative offers a variety of industrial and office units for rent on favourable terms at the main WIN Business Park and in Business Parks located in Warrenpoint, Flurrybridge, Kilkeel and Forkhill. A range of Office Services can be provided to both businesses and community and voluntary organisations and number of conference, meeting and training rooms are available for hire. Advisory support for the unemployed, young prospective entrepreneurs and SMEs is also available. The Co-operative offers a range of business start-up, business growth and innovation programmes, including Business Start-up, Exploring Enterprise, Business Growth, the Social Entrepreneurship Programme and the EU Leonardo and Erasmus Plus transnational SME and Higher Education Innovation and Employability Alliance Programmes. These programmes are supplemented by business clinics, advice and mentoring, assistance with work placements and opportunities to network with other business owners. The Co-operative also manages two programmes – Work4Uplus and Education to Employment – for young people who endure adversity in their lives and are considered ‘at risk’ of becoming disengaged from education, employment and training. The Co-operative contributes to policy development at both central and local government level and sponsors activities organised by partner community associations and other NGOs. | £994,376
<strong>AVON NAVIGATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [244951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244951)]<br>Maintains the navigation on the River Avon between Alveston Weir and Tewkesbury. | £876,830


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FORWARD 4 WIZ TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1172936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172936)]<br>The Forward 4 Wiz Trust supports new music at grassroots level by way of mentoring, advising and assisting aspiring musicians to drive forward creativity and strengthen community. Our focus is on, but not limited to, those residing in Rushmoor, Hampshire and its borders. | £2,849
<strong>BARTON WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [510574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510574)]<br>Barton WI helps underpriviledged groups. | £901
<strong>CAISTER ON SEA WOMENS INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [286477](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286477)]<br>Enabling women interested in issues associated with rural life, arts, crafts and sciences to improve and develop.  To work in the community. | £1,658
<strong>LITTLE MARLOW AND WELLEND WOMENS INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1015898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015898)]<br>Outings to Educational Places, Craft Activities, Rambles | £1,045
<strong>MILTON ABBAS TRUST FOR THE COMMUNITY AND HERITAGE</strong> [Charity number: [1191918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191918)]<br>1) TO FURTHER OR BENEFIT THE INHABITANTS OF THE PARISH OF MILTON ABBAS AND THE SURROUNDING AREA WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE OR OF POLITICAL, RELIGIOUS OR OTHER OPINIONS BY ASSOCIATING TOGETHER THE SAID RESIDENTS AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, VOLUNTARY AND OTHER ORGANISATIONS IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE RESIDENTS. IN FURTHERANCE OF THESE OBJECTS BUT NOT OTHERWISE, THE TRUSTEES SHALL HAVE POWER:TO ESTABLISH OR SECURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY CENTRE AND TO MAINTAIN OR MANAGE OR CO-OPERATE WITH ANY STATUTORY AUTHORITY IN THE MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF SUCH A CENTRE FOR ACTIVITIES PROMOTED BY THE CHARITY IN FURTHERANCE OF THE ABOVE OBJECTS.2) TO FURTHER SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE CHARITABLE WIT THE LAWS OF ENGLAND AND WALES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE RESIDENTS OF THE PARISH OF MILTON ABBAS AND THE SURROUNDING AREA, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY THE MAKING OF GRANTS TO CHARITIES AND VOLUNTARY ORGANISATIONS.FOR THE PURPOSES OF THIS CLAUSE:  • CHARITIES ARE ORGANISATIONS, WHICH ARE ESTABLISHED FOR EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE PURPOSES IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES.  • VOLUNTARY ORGANISATIONS ARE INDEPENDENT ORGANISATIONS, WHICH ARE ESTABLISHED FOR PURPOSES THAT ADD VALUE TO THE COMMUNITY AS A WHOLE, OR A SIGNIFICANT SECTION OF THE COMMUNITY, AND WHICH ARE NOT PERMITTED BY THEIR CONSTITUTION TO MAKE A PROFIT FOR PRIVATE DISTRIBUTION. VOLUNTARY ORGANISATIONS DO NOT INCLUDE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OR OTHER STATUTORY AUTHORITIES. | 
<strong>THE VICTORY HALL, HASKETON</strong> [Charity number: [1071129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071129)]<br>The charity is:-a village hall for use of all villagers and run by a committee. We have club meetings for toddlers, children, youth, old folk and for the village in general. Regular functions; Pilates, dance classes, old peoples club, general village lunches, dances, parties, whist, W.I. and hire to the Parish Council for meetings and polling station, etc. | £1,073
<strong>MONKTON FARLEIGH WOMENS INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1028449](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1028449)]<br>OUR W.I. EXISTS TO EDUCATE WOMEN TO ENABLE THEM TO PROVIDE AN EFFECTIVE ROLE IN THE COMMUNITY, TO EXPAND THEIR HORIZONS AND TO DEVELOP AND PASS ON IMPORTANT SKILLS. | £1,739
<strong>BLEASBY WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1025761](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1025761)]<br>Help in the community. | £447
<strong>PORT TALBOT WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1025006](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1025006)]<br>Invite speakers to speak to members. Fundraise at least once a year. Keep members in our institute up to date on W.I matters.Have educational and social visits.Learn new skills. | £651
<strong>PENNARD WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [506180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506180)]<br>To improve and develop conditions for women in both rural and urban communities and  advance the education of women in citizenship, in public questions both national and international, in music, drama and other cultural subjects; also to secure instruction and training in of agriculture, handicrafts, home economics, health and social welfare. To promote sustainable development  by education. | £945
