# Townswomen's Guild `AS106`

Townswomen's Guild is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](/data/ukcat/AS) category.

167 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.08% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(towns ?wom(a|e)n\'?s guilds?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 160 | 0.19%
£10k - £100k | 5 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 1 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 166 | 0.09%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 162 | 0.10%
oscr | 3 | 0.01%
ccni | 2 | 0.03%
Total | 167 | 0.08%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1115974](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115974)]<br>Townswomen's Guilds (TG) acts as an umbrella organisation for the national movement. It provides administrative frameworks and works to promote the movement across the UK by assisting in the formation of new Guilds and in the recruitment of new members. It provides national events to bring members together, a magazine to link members and campaigns on matters that make women's lives better . | £242,424
<strong>ALWOODLEY COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [523749](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523749)]<br>To promote the benefit of the inhabitants of Alwoodley by providing facilities for social welfare and recreation currently including Art, Badminton, Carpet Bowls, Chess, Football, Junior Chess, Lace & Craft, Sinfonia, Singers, Social Club, Table Tennis, Tennis.Affiliated Groups - Scouts & Guides, Townswomen's Guild | £44,695
<strong>SHROPSHIRE & MID WALES FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1086076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086076)]<br>Keeping members up-to-date on topical issues, particularly those affecting our members.Townwomen's Guilds play a key role in communicating important national issues to government bodies and the media and collectively voice their concerns to change and improve the livelihoods of women. | £30,912
<strong>DAVENTRY ABBEY (E) TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1083511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083511)]<br>A National Womens organisation providing monthly meetings with interesting speakers, demonstrations & outings to places of local interest. | £19,427
<strong>NORTH PATCHWAY HALL</strong> [Charity number: [270071](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270071)]<br>Provide a meeting place for local activities e.g. Dancing (all types), Karate, Whist, Towns Women's Guild, Senior Citizens and Children's Parties | £15,276
<strong>HAWCOAT COMMUNITY CENTRE  MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE</strong> [Charity number: [1153905](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153905)]<br>Hawcoat Community Centre is for the use of the general public to hire, it also houses a Pre-School every morning during term time & also is used by several groups and societies such as a mother & toddler group, whist drives, Barrow Savoyaurds, keep fit classes, craft classes and activities, Barrow Townswomens Guild & a Friendship club. We also hold fundraising events for the charity. | £12,260
<strong>SOUTH EAST ESSEX FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1086052](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086052)]<br>Educating and informing women of all ages.  Holidays, speakers, outings and themed days. | £9,534
<strong>MEIR HEATH AND ROUGH CLOSE VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [506032](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506032)]<br>The provision of buildings, facilities and open space for use by local and wider community for a range of recreation/sports and other  activities. i.e. art/lace making/karate/dance/aerobics classes. Indoor bowls, tumble tots (pe for infants). WI/Towns Women's Guild, parish council. Police & community meetings. Parties/weddings etc. Conferences/exhibitions, polling station (elections). | £9,511
<strong>THE GREAT WYRLEY TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1085643](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085643)]<br>TOWNSWOMENS GUILD | £9,431
<strong>SUTTON COLDFIELD BANNERS GATE TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1085536](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085536)]<br>THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN IN A SOCIAL GROUP INCLUDING VISITS TO THE THEATER AND OTHER PLACES OF INTEREST.  A CHARITY IS CHOSEN EACH YEAR AND MONEY IS RAISED THROUGH A VARIETY OF ACTIVITIES IN SUPPORT OF THAT CHARITY. | £8,991


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ISLE OF WIGHT FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1097805](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097805)]<br>Isle of Wight Federation of Townswomen's Guilds meet every 2 months and bring together all the other guilds on the island to share information news and views, help with any problems, hold inter guild competitions, lunches and outings also help arrange travel and accommodation for weekend schools or attending the National Council meeting each year. | £414
<strong>THE AUGHTON (E) TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1083743](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083743)]<br>Meeting twice a month in Lancashire to help promote educational and social activities for women. | £3,467
<strong>DARLINGTON MOWDEN PARK TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1081869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081869)]<br>Works towards achieving the charities objectives by holding monthly meetings where topical issues are discussed on which surveys are completed.Speakers on a variety of topics both educational and recreational are invited.Regular social events,outings and activities are held. | £5,366
<strong>FLEET (MORNING) TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1084384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084384)]<br>Provision of meetings for the purposes of leisure and widening the education of women through speakers and demonstrators. | £5,820
<strong>SUNDERLAND AND DISTRICT FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1086740](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086740)]<br>To advance the education of women to enable them to make the best contribution toward the common good and in the principles of good citizenship. To advance the education of the public by publishing our research results on any public questions to provide facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupation for women with a view to improving their conditions of life | £132
<strong>Vale Of Leven Townswomens Guild</strong> [Charity number: [SC035664](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC035664)]<br>A Townswomen's Guild is formed for such purposes generally as may from time to time be charitable according to the Law of England and Wales and for the purposes of Sections 505 and 506(1) Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 respectively (including any statutory amendment or reenactment being in force) and more specifically (without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing):  3.1. To advance the education of women irrespective of race, creed and party so as to enable them to make the best contribution towards the common good.  3.2 To educate such women in the principles of good citizenship and in all public questions both national and international.  3.3 To advance the education of the public by carrying out research into any public questions whether local national or international and publishing the useful results of such research.  3.4 To advance the education of the public by promoting public understanding of any subject of educational value where women have particular knowledge or experience.  3.5. To provide or assist in the provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupation for such women in the interests of social welfare and with a view to improving their conditions of life. | £1,010
<strong>DORSET FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1092866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092866)]<br>A federation of 12 Guilds promoting women's issues and organising social activities in Dorset. | £2,482
<strong>PETERBOROUGH & S.LINCS FEDERATION OF TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILDS</strong> [Charity number: [1085962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085962)]<br>General educational  activities for women | £1,281
<strong>LODGE MOORS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [510290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510290)]<br>Luncheon Club , Indoor Bowls, Bingo,  Drama Club,  Keep Fit, Townswomen's Guild and Disabled Group, keep fit, Wood turners , Mini pamper sessions, Auction, MS Society, Street Sports (during winter months). | £1,275
<strong>PINNER WEST END A TOWNSWOMEN'S GUILD</strong> [Charity number: [1082530](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082530)]<br>We aim to advance the education of women irrespective of race, creed or party, so as to enable them to make the best contribution towards the common good, and to provide, or assist in the provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupations for local women in the interests of social welfare, and improving their conditions of life. | £7,125
