# Social club `AS105`

Social club is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) category.

2,019 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.00% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(social (groups?|clubs?|meets?|activit(y|ies)+|lunch(eon)? club))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 742 | 1.01%
£10k - £100k | 819 | 1.18%
£100k - £250k | 200 | 0.94%
£250k - £500k | 96 | 0.93%
£500k - £1m | 53 | 0.82%
£1m - £10m | 54 | 0.61%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 1,967 | 1.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,704 | 1.00%
oscr | 229 | 0.93%
ccni | 86 | 1.19%
Total | 2,019 | 1.00%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £95,410,000
<strong>The Cedar Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [NI101121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101121)]<br>We work with service users to offer person centred assistance and support with careers advice, educational opportunities and work experience. We work with employers to seek job opportunities and provide on-going advice and assistance to support the needs of both the service user and their employer so that they can work independently. The Outlook Service allows children and young people to engage in social and recreational activities of their choice outside of their family environment. The Transitions Service is an early intervention service to enable young people to make appropriate choices when moving on from school to Further or Higher Education, training or employment. The Youth Matters Service provides social activities and personal development programmes for young people with disabilities up to 18 years old. Right 4 U offers children and young people who have ASD a made to measure service that makes it possible for them to get out of the house and into their community. We provide a range of Living Options designed to meet the needs of people who have brain injury, physical disability and sensory impairment and for people with learning disabilities. Our Supported Living Service provides independent apartments or bungalows to people with different levels of housing support and care needs. Our Housing Support Service provides support to adults in their own homes and our Floating Support team assists adults living in their own home to carry out their housing responsibilities independently by tailoring a programme to suit their individual needs. We provide 24-hour care in our Residential Services. We provide a range of Social and Community Network programmes to promote peer support and participation in the community | £19,894,104
<strong>GOODENOUGH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [312894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312894)]<br>Goodenough College provides residential accommodation for British and international postgraduate students and their families in central London. We deliver a vibrant community through a unique programme of intellectual, cultural and social activities in line with our values of global citizenship and social responsibility. The Burn offers accommodation and an academic retreat in Scotland. | £16,389,000
<strong>ASPIRE LIVING LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1024904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1024904)]<br>Aspire provides care and support to people with a learning disability both at home and in the community and to those living in residential care accommodation.  It runs a community hub, an online centre and a social club for adults.  Aspire also provides respite support for carers. | £8,826,994
<strong>Support For Ordinary Living</strong> [Charity number: [SC027852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC027852)]<br>To provide support, assistance and services to people with learning disabilities aimed at promoting their social presence, participation and standing within the community including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality):-  (a) Assistance in planning, arranging and co-ordinating support, and selecting and employing support staff  (b) Designing and providing support services including assistance with personal care, daily living, and social activities  (c) Assistance in obtaining housing and related services, education, training and employment, and specialised support such as counselling or appropriate health care | £7,789,625
<strong>STUDENTS' UNION ROYAL HOLLOWAY UNIVERSITY OF LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1141998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141998)]<br>Our activities include the following service provision to our students; representation, welfare, sporting clubs & cultural societies, volunteering, skills development,campaigning, social activities and entertainments, media, fundraising,  employment, accomodation, safety transport, market days, sustainability initiatives, equality and liberation initiatives,  employability. | £6,776,557
<strong>Inverclyde Leisure</strong> [Charity number: [SC032161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032161)]<br>(a) To provide or assist in the provision of facilities for recreational, sporting, cultural or social activities (such facilities being provided from time to time being hereinafter referred to as 'the Facilities') for the general public in, or in connection with, the Local Authority area of Inverclyde as defined in Schedule 1 to the Local Government etc (Scotland) Act 1994 (such Local Authority area being referred hereafter to as 'Inverclyde') and other parts of Scotland in the interests of social welfare and education. and  (b) to encourage and promote for the purposes of social welfare, information on nutrition, health matters and exercise as will promote a healthy lifestyle for all. | £6,569,637
<strong>Army Cadet Charitable Trust UK</strong> [Charity number: [305962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305962)]<br>The Association is dedicated to promoting the ideals and activities of the Army Cadet Force, a national, military themed, voluntary youth movement open to boys and girls of all backgrounds and abilities.  In providing educational, adventurous, competitve and social activities the Association's key priorities are citizenship development, leadership training, and confidence building. | £5,940,729
<strong>THE GLOUCESTER CHARITIES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [205177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205177)]<br>The Charity provides sheltered flats for older people in Gloucestershire as well as a Residential  Home and Nursing Home. The Charity also offers day care services for those living with dementia in the wider community as well as a weekly social club.The Trust also administers a "Relief in Need" grant making branch of the charity and the former Gloucester District Nursing Charity. | £5,126,458
<strong>ATEGI LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1077595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077595)]<br>Ategi provides support services to vulnerable adults. These services include:- shared lives service, supported tenancies, visiting support (in a range of employment, education and leisure activities), social activities (a voluntary scheme helping to access leisure activities and develop friendships). | £5,064,305


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BLAENAU GWENT (ABERTILLERY) COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1080032](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080032)]<br>Charity operates solely within Blaenau Gwent. The hall is available for use by members of the public for social activities and also any bodies who wish to hold health and education classes. | £8,888
<strong>Harbour (Ayrshire)</strong> [Charity number: [SC051829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051829)]<br>4 The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are:  4.1 the advancement of citizenship and community development through supporting those at risk, experiencing, or recovering from addiction by encouraging active and positive citizenship through volunteering and community re-engagement. Raising awareness of the causes of addiction & its related mental health issues with the purpose of reducing stigma, marginalisation and isolation. 4.2 the relief of those in need by reason of addiction and its causes and consequences, (including addiction related mental health, social isolation, poverty and disadvantage). Through facilitating one to one support sessions, group sessions, support groups, training, social activities, signposting, events and participation in Harbour Ayrshire programmes. 4.3 To create a strong programme of volunteering, training and employment opportunities to support the long term development of our participants.  | £306,206
<strong>Colmonell Community Association </strong> [Charity number: [SC049177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049177)]<br>The Organisation has been formed to benefit the community of those who live, work, or have an interest in Colmonell (the 'Community''), with the following purposes (the 'Purposes'): 4.1 The advancement of citizenship and community development through efforts to focus civic pride and develop the capacity of Colmonell residents via volunteering, learning and community based activities. 4.2 The advancement of Colmonell's heritage and culture by preserving the built environment and providing new opportunities to promote and learn about the area's unique history 4.3 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities offering residents new opportunities to participate in leisure, sport and social activities 4.4 The advancement of environmental protection particularly through the organisation of activities to preserve our beautiful countryside, lower carbon emissions and make prudent use of resources.  | £20,720
<strong>PENTREFELIN COMMUNITY CENTRE - Y GANOLFAN PENTREFELIN</strong> [Charity number: [512796](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-512796)]<br>provide a community hall for social activities for Pentrefelin and nearby environs | £6,105
<strong>BROWNHILLS AND WALSALL WOOD FELLOWSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1123463](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123463)]<br>Services to Walsall Wood&Brownhills OAPs, disabled, learning difficulties. Fully accessible- large hall, meeting room, kitchen, hosting receptions, parties, funeral gatherings. Hosts social evenings, Darby&Joan, Lunch Club, Craft/sewing Group.  Midland Mencap use facilities weekly for social groups. Charity is fostering links with partner organizations Police, Churches, Veterans and Food banks. | £27,173
<strong>Ballymena and District Gateway Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI101052](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101052)]<br>Ballymena and District Gateway Club is run entirely by volunteers and has been established for forty years. We are a valuable social club open to adult members of our community who have learning disabilities. We currently have sixty members and throughout the year we offer a varied programme of interesting, fun and accessible activities and events such as games nights, bowling and movie nights as well annual trips to the pantomime, a Christmas dinner and a Summer outing. The aims of the group include providing these social activities whilst promoting and supporting independence and social inclusion to members of the community who can often be very isolated. We recognise our members have differing needs and are mindful to offer inclusive opportunities across the year, to ensure individual needs are appropriately met, to provide a warm and friendly environment in which everyone is treated with respect and dignity. The club recognises many members and their families suffer financial hardship and that additional costs may create a barrier to membership so we aim to fund all activities, with the exception of the pantomime, through fund raising. In addition we also offer an opportunity to people to volunteer with the group which is both rewarding and enjoyable. | £11,242
<strong>Upper Andersonstown Community Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI105782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105782)]<br>Listed below is the range of programmes, projects and activities the Forum delivers to achieve its objects UPPER ANDERSONSTOWN COMMUNITY FORUM (ACTIVITIES) WORK EXPERIENCE PLACEMENTS Childcare Early Years Afterschool Project Youth Club Administration - Caretaking and Cleaning VOLUNTEER PROJECT CHILDCARE PROECT Volunteering placements in youth project, childcare, management committee Big Lottery Afterschool Project Afterschool Creche Creche in support of training Surestart 2 year old programme COMMUNITY EDUCATION TRAINING PROGRAMME Driving Theory ICT (range of levels) Personal Development Irish Job search/CV building ESSENTIAL SKILLS PROJECCT Numeracy and Literacy Support Essential Skills school programme EMPLOYMENT AND JOB SUPPORT PROGRAMME Job Assist clinic/mentoring Referral to SIF opportunities WELFARE ADVICE PROJECT Advice/Support in relation to benefit entitlement LEAD PARTNER NEIGHBOURHOOD RENEWAL PARTNERSHIP Thematic (a) Community Infrastructure (b) Culture (c) Community Safety (d)Health (e)Economic Development UTOPIA SENIOR CITIZENS PROJECT Senior Citizens social, creative and health Programme DISABILTY GROUPS Sky’s the Limit Drama Group West Belfast Parkinson’s Support Group HEALTH Stress Management Health Promotion Days YOUTH CLUB 200-Place Youth Club (5-11 year olds &12-16 year olds) Extensive range of social , cultural and sporting activities EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAMME Provide alternatives to anti- social activity for12-21 year olds Education, training and placements SUMMER SCHEME 4 week programme of social, sporting and entertainment activities. SUMMER DAYCARE 8 weeks Primary 1 to Primary 7 ICT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT Accredited OCR Centre ECDL Cascade Career Development Software Beginner’s Computers CLAIT OCR Internet Technologies COMMUNITY NEWSLETTER Informing the community of our work Clubs/Schools www.upperandersonstown.com FOR MORE INFORMATION ON ANY OF THE PROJECTS CONTACT Patrick Wilson at 02890622201 | £754,450
<strong>FEERING COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1188714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188714)]<br>Management of Community building. Social activities for benefit of the community. | £36,601
<strong>BLACK ELDERS DAY CENTRE OF GLOUCESTER</strong> [Charity number: [900388](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-900388)]<br>The Black Elders Day Centre operates within the County of Gloucestershire and delivers Day Care to African Caribbean Elders, (but not exclusively) aged 50 and over. Specially to the frail, elderly and disabled by providing day care services twice weekly -  Personal care, cooked lunch, social activity and mental stimulation, day trips and outings, adult education and health improvement activities. | £34,100
<strong>Growing Beyond Tomorrow</strong> [Charity number: [SC050449](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050449)]<br>The charitable purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are to nurture and support young people to fulfil their potential, in particular the SCIO aims to: advance education through the delivery of initiatives and programmes in the community by providing a range of sporting and physical activity combined with active learning in order to empower, increase capacity and employability skills as well as providing social activities for enjoyment. prevent or relieve poverty through empowering (in particular but not restricted to) young people through the delivery of community initiatives, training, education, using sport and physical activity as a mechanism to make a difference and address and mitigate disadvantage.  advancement of community development through the delivery of a volunteering programme which seeks to offer personal development of young people to unlock potential, encourage physical activity, volunteering, participation in sport, and promote healthy living. advancement of the public participation in sport by: promoting social inclusion for those who are excluded from participating in sport & physical activity due to their social & economic circumstances, encouraging participation on an equal and inclusive basis, thereby reaching those less likely to engage. offering activities designed to build confidence in ability, skill & physical fitness that are well structured, organised & have a fun element and encourage maximum participation, whilst introducing the participants to sports and physical activity in their lives.  | 
