# Fraternal societies `AS102`

Fraternal societies is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) category.

625 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.31% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(free masons?|masonic|grand lodge|ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN|Lodge no)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 450 | 0.60%
£10k - £100k | 134 | 0.19%
£100k - £250k | 14 | 0.07%
£250k - £500k | 6 | 0.06%
£500k - £1m | 5 | 0.08%
£1m - £10m | 9 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.19%
Total | 622 | 0.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 581 | 0.34%
ccni | 26 | 0.36%
oscr | 18 | 0.07%
Total | 625 | 0.31%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MASONIC CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1164703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164703)]<br>To relieve and preserve health, advance education and prevent or relieve poverty or financial hardship, amongst such persons as the Trustees consider from time to time to be in need of assistance and to further such other purposes being exclusively charitable. | £85,720,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION CARE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1163245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163245)]<br>The main activity is the provision of 1096 registered beds for Residential, Dementia, and Nursing care in 17 Care Homes throughout England and Wales. In addition the Charity runs approximately 145 sheltered units for those who seek independence and can still look after themselves. Many of these tenants later become residents in the Homes. | £54,027,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC SCHOOL FOR GIRLS</strong> [Charity number: [276784](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276784)]<br>The Royal Masonic School for Girls is committed to the education and care of pupils between the ages of 2 and 18 years. It provides a supportive structure,which enables staff and girls to discover and develop their talents to the full. | £19,514,799
<strong>THE GRAND CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [281942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281942)]<br>THE FREEMASONS' GRAND CHARITY IS THE CENTRAL GRANT-GIVING CHARITY OF ALL ENGLISH CONSTITUTION FREEMASONS.  ITS OBJECTS ARE VERY BROAD AND GIVE DISCRETION TO THE COUNCIL TO DETERMINE CHARITABLE POLICIES.  THE TWO PRIMARY ACTIVITIES ARE 1. GRANTS: FOR MASONS OR THEIR DEPENDANTS; OTHER MASONIC CHARITIES & NON-MASONIC CHARITIES. 2. MANAGING THE RELIEF CHEST SCHEME. | £15,245,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC TRUST FOR GIRLS AND BOYS</strong> [Charity number: [1170336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170336)]<br>The objects of the Charity shall be for the relief of poverty and the advancement of education by the assistance of such children inclusive of adopted children, step-children and children of the family of any age of Freemasons under the United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of England as the Trustee consider from time to time are in need of assistance. | £5,043,000
<strong>TM MASONIC CHARITABLE FOUNDATION INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1180088](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180088)]<br>The charity is a Charity Authorised Investment Fund and has been established exclusively to further the charitable purposes of the charities that directly or indirectly hold units in the fund. As such all unitholders must themselves be charities.  Specifically, the charity has been established for the benefit of masonic charities in England and Wales. | £5,024,000
<strong>THE GRAND LODGE OF MARK MASTER MASONS' FUND OF BENEVOLENCE</strong> [Charity number: [207610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207610)]<br>Grants to individuals and Charitable Organisation | £1,778,012
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [207360](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207360)]<br>The main activity is the provision of approximately 1096beds for Residential, Dementia, and Nursing care in 17 Homes throughout England and Wales. In addition the Charity runs approximately 145 sheltered units for those who seek independence and can still look after themselves. Many of these tenants later become residents in the Homes. | £1,567,000
<strong>Scottish Masonic Homes Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC043070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043070)]<br>The Company is established for the advancement of charitable purposes and in particular the prevention or relief of poverty, the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by:-  (a) making grants or contributions to augment any benevolent fund of the Grand Lodge that holds charitable status.  (b) providing Homes, day care, respite care and care at home to those who are aged and worthy and in such other cases as may be considered by the Directors to be necessitous, and the building, altering, furnishing, equipping and maintaining of such Homes and the maintenance of the residents and others who benefit therein | £1,357,911
<strong>MASONIC SAMARITAN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1130424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130424)]<br>Taking over the activities of the former unincorporated body registered as Charity No 1001298: the provision of medical assistance, support, treatment, care or advice to Freemasons, their wives, children or dependants, or the widows, children or dependants of deceased Freemasons. | £1,133,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES G L E MERSEY PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [501927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-501927)]<br>GRANTS TO INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS OF THE RAOB FOR NECESSITOUS PURPOSES.  DEATH GRANTS TO BEREAVED FAMILIES TO ASSIST WITH FUNERAL EXPENSES.  CONVALESCENT GRANTS FOR MEMBERS GOING ON CONVALESCENT STAY AT THE RAOB CONVALESCENT HOMES.  BENEVOLENT FUND IS AVAILABLE TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE RAOB MERSEY PROVINCE WHO ARE IN FULL FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE.  THE FUND ALSO ASSISTS WIDOWS IN NECESSITOUS CIRCUMSTANCES. | £467
<strong>Mother Lodge Kilwinning Masonic No 0 Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC016783](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016783)]<br>The prevention and relief of poverty. The advancement of health. | £1,200
<strong>SOUTHPORT AND DISTRICT PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE OF ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [518504](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-518504)]<br>Benevolent donations to members of Southport & District RAOB GLE. | £790
<strong>DUNCOMBE PLACE MASONIC HALL CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1027876](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1027876)]<br>To preserve for the benefit of the City of York and the nation at large the freehold premises, situate and known as "The Masonic Hall, Duncombe Place" in the City of York. | £25,632
<strong>Freemasons' Hall Aberdeen SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC051879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051879)]<br>7 Purposes 7.1 The charitable purposes of the SCIO are:  7.1.1 the advancement of heritage by  7.1.1.1 preserving and maintaining Freemasons' Hall. and 7.1.1.2 collecting, cataloguing and displaying the artefacts and archives of local Masonic organisations.  7.1.2 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by the provision of grants or support in kind to individuals or to other charitable or benevolent organisations as the Board may from time to time in its sole discretion see fit. | £25,000
<strong>Belfast Masonic Widows Fund</strong> [Charity number: [NI102661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102661)]<br>•The purpose of the Trust is to afford assistance to needy, Freemasons or their families or the dependants of deceased Freemasons by grants of money or such other means as may be best suited to the needs of the applicants. •Annuity Grants are paid by two instalments in April and October of each year. To consider applications presented by Masonic units within the operational jurisdiction of the Fund at the Stated Monthly Meetings of the Trust in January, February, March, April, May, September, October, November and December of each year. •In addition to the Stated Monthly Meetings, the Fund operates an emergency service throughout the year to provide for applications deemed to be of urgent requirement for immediate relief. •An award of annuity Grant or singular grant is assessed by dependence of circumstance in relation to need. Grants are based on scheduled valuations of Bands which are annually ratified at our AGM in April of each year; each Band has a Grant value allowance based on a schedule analysis assessed on levels of definable income. •Applications are considered by process of analysis and assurance that full entitlement of state benefits is being achieved in accordance with the financial social circumstance of the applicant. •The Fund will continue to offer guidance and provide direction to existing and/or potential beneficiaries in relation to entitlement of state benefits. •Applications are quantified by method of ‘means testing’ and ‘home visitation report’ to determine the financial circumstance and value of definable income associated with the living conditions, health and overall well-being of the applicant. •The circumstances of the beneficiaries are annually appraised by home visitation and report of annual review presented to the Committee in September of each year to determine and ratify necessity for continued assistance | £62,770
<strong>BORDER LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [285815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-285815)]<br>Support to indigent Freemasons; support to widows and children of Freemasons; support to local causes; support to general Masonic charities in England and Wales | £6,015
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES GRAND LODGE OF ENGLAND COMPREHENSIVE TRUST DEED</strong> [Charity number: [220193](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220193)]<br>Provision of Grants (through direct application), to support the members of the "GLE", and their dependents (Wife, Partner, or Children) who are in need. This includes the following types of Grant: Annuities, Illness, Disability, Education, support for Convalescence, and ad-hoc or emergency grants. | £340,737
<strong>LORD WARDEN MASONIC CHARITIES ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [273445](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273445)]<br>General charitable purposes including assisting with medical,health and sickness. Disability, relief of poverty, accommodation and housing. Religious activities, environmental, conservation and heritage issues. Economicc,community development and employment | £2,900
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES GLE MERTHYR AND DISTRICT PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [252424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-252424)]<br>Fund raising throuh the member only. Making Benevolent Grants and their dependants | £82,621
