# YWCA / YMCA `AS108`

YWCA / YMCA is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](/data/ukcat/AS) category.

201 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.10% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(young (wo)?men'?s? christian association|y\.?[wm]\.?c\.?a\.?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 37 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 40 | 0.06%
£100k - £250k | 23 | 0.12%
£250k - £500k | 18 | 0.20%
£500k - £1m | 22 | 0.38%
£1m - £10m | 46 | 0.58%
Over £10m | 9 | 0.49%
Total | 195 | 0.10%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 150 | 0.09%
oscr | 40 | 0.16%
ccni | 11 | 0.15%
Total | 201 | 0.10%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>YMCA St Paul's Group</strong> [Charity number: [1041923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041923)]<br>THE PROVISION OF SERVICES TO VULNERABLE MEMBERS OF THE LOCAL COMMUNITY, WITH A FOCUS ON YOUNG PEOPLE. | £24,532,032
<strong>ONE YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [1102301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102301)]<br>THE PROVISION OF SOCIAL HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE, THE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE AND RESIDENTS.IN ADDITION WE OPERATE A WIDE RANGE OF CHILDRENS' CENTRES AND A FULL DAY NURSERY.OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED FOR THE COMMUNITY INCLUDE HEALTH, SPORTS AND RECREATION PROGRAMMES AND FACILITIES AND MEETING SPACES FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS. | £19,501,186
<strong>NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [212810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212810)]<br>YMCA England & Wales supports and represents YMCAs all over England and Wales, helping them transform communities so that all young peoply truly belong, contribute and thrive.By working with YMCAs that understand local issues, the YMCA Movement in England & Wales meets the real needs of young people, supporting them in a way which is nationally significant but locally relevant. | £17,592,000
<strong>YMCA DOWNSLINK GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1079570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079570)]<br>Primary objectives include the provision of accomodation, support, advice and therapeutic services, education and training, apprenticeships, leisure and recreational activities, particularly for young people and those who are disadvantaged. | £16,251,944
<strong>YMCA ROBIN HOOD GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [243044](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-243044)]<br>Provider of supported accommodation, health and fitness facilities and services, community facilities and work with children and young people. | £13,803,316
<strong>YMCA TRINITY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1069810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069810)]<br>The YMCA works to enable young people to grow to their full potential by participating in a supportive and inclusive community through its housing, youth work, health and fitness and other programmes.The main group who benefit are those in the age range 8 to 28 through a variety ofprogrammes from short duration specialist interventions to supported housing offered over a number of years. | £11,149,634
<strong>YMCA FAIRTHORNE GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1090981](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090981)]<br>Working with communities in Hampshire and IOW & providingAfter School Clubs, Holiday Play Schemes, Volunteering Projects, Early Years Childcare, Residential Group Facilities, Daycamps, National Young Carers Festival, Outreach Youth Projects,In school youth work, Holiday Playschemes for Children With Special Needs, Outdoor Education, Forest School, Supported Housing for Young People, | £10,966,000
<strong>THE CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [213121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213121)]<br>CENTRAL YMCA IS ONE OF THE WORLD'S OLDEST AND LARGEST CHARITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. WE HELP MAKE LIVES HAPPIER, HEALTHIER AND MORE FULFILLED THROUGH A UNIQUE BLEND OF EDUCATION, TRAINING, ADVOCACY, AND SUPPORT. ALL OF OUR WORK GOES TOWARDS HELPING TO GIVE PEOPLE ACCESS TO LIFE-CHANGING OPPORTUNITIES NATIONWIDE THROUGH OUR FOUR OPERATIONS; YMCA TRAINING, YMCA AWARDS, YMCAFIT, AND YMCA CLUB. | £10,805,000
<strong>BRIDGWATER YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1076434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076434)]<br>Provision of Homelessness prevention advice, Housing and support for young people (16-25), families, and vulnerable adults.  Community, Youth and families work including Early Years Provision,  Health and Wellbeing facilities, information and computer technology, lettings of rooms and facilities to local groups and agencies. Training opportunities through social enterprise activities. | £10,524,122
<strong>CITY OF LIVERPOOL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (INC)</strong> [Charity number: [210443](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210443)]<br>To serve  the city of Liverpool by providing services for local communities that promote their welbeing in mind body and spirit. We achieve this through a spectrum of activities, such as housing, health initiatives, sport, the arts and various other activities across the city. | £8,867,681


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Bridge Community Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC033125](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033125)]<br>The object of the Club will be in the interests of social welfare, education  and recreation to promote Christian and moral values and citizenship  amongst the young people in and around the town of Stomoway in the  Isle of Lewis    The Centre can retain its membership of the Scottish  National Council of YMCA's and fulfil the conditions of membership.   It can also retain its affiliation of the Boys Club of Scotland | £116,108
<strong>JOSIAH VAVASSEUR YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION FUND</strong> [Charity number: [250526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250526)]<br>Supports work with young people in Norfolk | £1,056
<strong>Young Men's Christian Association (Lisburn) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103817](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103817)]<br>The YMCA offers a comprehensive range of opportunities to young people and the wider community which can be classified as providing ‘Public Benefit’ in the following areas: 1. Advancement of education - through its provision of programmes based non formal education in areas such as youth work, community education, life-long learning, vocational training and the development of individual competences, skills understanding and capacities. The beneficiaries are primarily young people with direct projects related to childcare, after schools, youth work, and young leader development. 2. Advancement of health - through the use of health promotion and support for the mental well being of young people. The beneficiaries are normally between 8 and 25 years old however health promotion is a theme through all our programmes and held could involve parents and young children 3. The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The YMCA encourages and supports volunteers in its programme areas and promotes the development of community groups by extending support, advice and allowing use of its premises. 4. Relief of those in need by reason of youth, age,ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage - In partnership with other statutory and voluntary organisations the YMCA provides direct services to young people and families through volunteer placements, | £1,093,571
<strong>YMCA Scarborough</strong> [Charity number: [250527](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250527)]<br>YMCA believes in fairness and opportunity. There are essential building blocks for a full and rewarding life: a safe home; acceptance; guidance; friendship; physical and mental health; academic support; employment skills; and access to real opportunities. At YMCA, we provide these critical foundations for a fresh, strong start for young people and a better quality of life in the community. | £317,404
<strong>THE WALTON ON THE NAZE YMCA RED TRIANGLE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1068668](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068668)]<br>The objects of the Club are, in accordance with the Christian ethos and principles of The YMCA, to provide and assist in the provision of facilities for the recreation and leisure time occupation of the public and in particular of the inhabitants of Walton on the Naze and the surrounding area in the interests of social welfare and with the object of improving their conditions of life. | £17,263
<strong>YMCA CENTRAL AND ANGLIA TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1021110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021110)]<br>The purpose of the Trust Fund is promoting the general purposes of the work of the Young Mens Christian Association Movement in accordance with the rules and principles from time to time approved and adopted by the National Council of YMCAsThe area of benefit for the Fund is the current Central Region of YMCAsGrants are typically made for the direct benefit of young people aged 9 - 25 | £69,597
<strong>Scottish National Council YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [SC013792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013792)]<br>a) The Advancement of Christian Religion  b) The Advancement of Education  c) The Advancement of Health  d) The Relief of those in Need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage   e) The Advancement of Citizenship or Community Development  f) The Prevention or Relief of Poverty | £1,152,320
<strong>Tollcross YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [SC003047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003047)]<br>4.1 To organise the provision of recreational facilities in order to provide a safe environment and to promote the acceptance of all people regardless of disability, ethnicity, religion or faith, culture, gender, sexual orientation or social class. This will be done within the Christian ethos of the YMCA movement. Information and materials in relation to Christianity will be available for those who wish further knowledge. 4.2 To advance educational opportunities by organising programmes through activities and discussion, either within the premises or externally. Included in these would be the opportunity to promote development of citizenship and health, in such a way, that the young people make better choices for themselves. to promote a healthy lifestyle by organising awareness sessions on subjects such as alcohol and drug abuse and providing an environment where these can be discussed in an open and honest manner. 4.3 To promote citizenship and develop community spirit by encouraging young people to consider their environment and engage in intergenerational activities to bridge the gap between young and old. 4.4 To support and advance young people to reach their potential by overcoming barriers that would normally exclude them, e.g. age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, racial discrimination and social class. 4.5 Affiliation: The Association, as of 1 April 2015, is a member of Scottish National Council YMCA, (Charity Number SC013792) (“The National Council'), and shall be bound by the provisions of the Constitution of that Council, including in particular Conditions of Membership of The National Council, as comprised in Appendix D thereto, and for reference set out in Appendix A hereto. | £138,890
<strong>LONDON CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1001043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001043)]<br>From 31st July 2017 London Central YMCA Training ceased operating with all services now delivered by the parent charity Central Young Men's Christian Association. The principal activities of the charity were the provision of quality courses that train individuals to enable them to begin or enhance a career as instructors in the wellbeing, health and fitness industry. | 
<strong>HALIFAX AND DISTRICT YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1163210](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163210)]<br>Halifax YMCA is part of the worldwide YMCA movement that specializes in helping young people develop their full potential so they can contribute to the wider world in a positive manner. | £95,420
