# Community association `AS101`

Community association is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) category.

3,550 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.75% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(((community|village) (association|organisation|activities))|a community group)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,027 | 1.36%
£10k - £100k | 1,769 | 2.59%
£100k - £250k | 371 | 1.79%
£250k - £500k | 146 | 1.48%
£500k - £1m | 59 | 0.96%
£1m - £10m | 32 | 0.38%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 3,406 | 1.78%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,935 | 1.72%
oscr | 327 | 1.31%
ccni | 288 | 4.00%
Total | 3,550 | 1.75%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Angus Alive</strong> [Charity number: [SC046133](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046133)]<br>The Company will promote, advance and further charitable purposes and activities through the provision of services which enhance and contribute to the personal development, wellbeing and health of the residents of Angus (and beyond) including, but not limited to, educational, cultural, environmental and heritage based community activities. | £10,889,913
<strong>East Renfrewshire Culture & Leisure Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC045726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045726)]<br>2.1 The Company will promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes and activities through the provision of services which enhance and contribute to the health, fitness and personal development and wellbeing of the residents of East Renfrewshire (and beyond) including, but not limited to, educational, sporting, culture and heritage based community activities. | £10,736,000
<strong>Live Argyll</strong> [Charity number: [SC047545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047545)]<br>2.1 The Company will promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes and activities through the provision of services which enhance and contribute to the health, fitness and personal development and wellbeing of the residents of Argyll and Bute (and beyond) including, but not limited to, educational, sporting, culture and heritage based community activities.  2.2 In promoting, advancing and furthering Charitable Purposes and activities as detailed in article 2.1 the Company seeks to:-  2.2 .1 encourage the population of Argyll and Bute to be more active in promoting andsupporting the development of sporting and health and fitness opportunities that are accessible for everyone.  2.2.2 support people to be more creative and nurture potential for personal success and wellbeing through the provision of cultural facilities and resources.  2.2.3 help individuals to benefit from social engagement and community interaction. and   2.2.4 promote and make available lifelong learning opportunities, including the promotion of literacy and digital inclusion, and stemming from these opportunities make a social and economic contribution to society  2.3 For the purposes of the Charities Act the following Charitable Purposes are relevant and for the purposes of the Charities Act are Charitable Purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the Charities Act:-   2.3.1 the advancement of education. 2.3.2 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 2.3.3 the advancement of public participation in sport. and 2.3.4 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended  2.4 For the purposes of the Taxes Acts the provisions set out in articles 2.1 to 2.3 inclusive shall be read together to ensure the Charitable Purposes of the Company are compliant with the Taxes Act. | £7,348,237
<strong>CREATIVE YOUTH NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [266318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-266318)]<br>Opportunities, courses and activities for young people with a focus on excellence in the arts and those most disadvantaged in our society.  Maintenance and provision of buildings for youth and other community activities.Provision of Youth Services | £4,963,176
<strong>STOKE-ON-TRENT AND NORTH STAFFORDSHIRE THEATRE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [253242](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-253242)]<br>The producing theatre for Staffordshire & Stoke on Trent, creating excellent, nationally renowned theatre in our unique in-the-round auditorium, appealing to a wide range of people, striving to reach new audiences and consolidating existing audiences. We believe in the power of theatre to change lives, making a difference for local people of all ages through our education and community activities. | £4,353,185
<strong>YMCA LEICESTERSHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [213513](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213513)]<br>The Y is a diverse community organisation whose mission is to empower young people to achieve skills, independence and fulfillment through access to supported accommodation, education, arts and sports. | £3,534,651
<strong>WITTON LODGE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1039005](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1039005)]<br>Witton Lodge Community Association owns and manages over 200 homes for social and market rent, including a 40-apartment Independent Living Scheme. The Association supports local people with jobs and skills advice; organises a range of environmental projects to help people live healthier lives; works with the local community and partners to host a wide range of community events and activities. | £2,948,789
<strong>ST ANTHONY OF PADUA COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [517745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517745)]<br>St. Anthony of Padua Community Association is a registered charity, commited to enabling all people to develop to their full potential.Building up a combination of services, answering some of the most fundamental challenges that face our community.We are committed to adapting these services to meet the ever changing needs of the many vulnerable and disadvantaged people within our community. | £2,764,841
<strong>MILTON KEYNES CHRISTIAN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1119304](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119304)]<br>Milton Keynes Christian Centre is a contemporary church seeking to benefit the citizens of Milton Keynes through the provision of a range of community activities including: Sunday services, Day Nursery, Children & Youth ministry, Senior Citizens focus, Gospel Outreaches, International Missions, Leadership & Personal development, variety of Small Groups and Counselling, Conferencing, & Coffee shop. | £2,263,623
<strong>BURNLEY PENDLE AND ROSSENDALE COUNCIL FOR VOLUNTARY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1062446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062446)]<br>To promote any charitable purpose for the benefit of the community in Lancashire and neighbouring areas; to promote, coordinate, support and develop community activities and to unite citizens of all classes irrespective of gender, religion or political opinion in the promotion of heath and social welfare. | £2,155,348


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>EASTFIELD ESTATES COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1177733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177733)]<br>Eastfield Estates Community Association provides activities and events for local residents. | 
<strong>DOONEEN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION AND HISTORICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [NI103732](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103732)]<br>Dooneen Community Association is a non-profitable, voluntary, cross-community organisation which provides valuable educational services for the local rural community. In addition to this, the centre is readily available for small community functions which strengthens and gels together this rural environment. Also, informative historical education is regularly provided on site encapsulating many varied topics. A vast array of classes are available at Dooneen. These include : computer literacy courses for beginners who then advance to more challenging classes, Irish language, art classes for both adults and children, yoga, guitar lessons and traditional Irish dancing. As part of our charity focus, we bi-annually organise events to fund raise for designated causes. | £4,852
<strong>The King's Community Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC041380](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041380)]<br>To support and serve its surrounding community and other organisations in the United Kingdom and around the world by accessing, evaluating and meeting the needs of those communities and thereby making a positive difference in the lives of others. To enhance the living experience of individuals, families and 'communities' both locally and globally by addressing issues of exclusion, poverty, marginalisation, lack of education and degeneration. To align itself with socially marginalised and disconnected people such as the very young, the elderly, those whose nationality may not be of United Kingdomorigin, and those who have been set apart from society because of lifestylechoices and behaviours. The Foundation will seek to provide opportunities for acceptance, connection and/or integration back into a meaningful contribution to society. To identify opportunities where involvement and integration could bring about regenerative change. This will be in the areas of: the physical environment where individuals, groups and families live. the emotional and/or psychological wellbeing of people bringing opportunities for life coaching and positive lifestyle choices, particularly in the areas of financial management, relational wellbeing and life controlling behaviours. the social fabric of communities assisting with the establishment and maintenance of community activities for all ages particularly in the areas of children, youth, families and the elderly. To champion the provision of relevant, appropriate and life long education by: providing a safe, secure and welcoming venue for educational activities to take place, ensuring that such activities are aligned with the vision and values of the Foundation. providing educational opportunities for all ages, backgrounds and culturally diverse people in variable aspects of living. For additional objects contact charity direct | £451,969
<strong>RATHMELL READING ROOM</strong> [Charity number: [519842](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519842)]<br>Running of village community centre for village activities and for groups to hire | £5,350
<strong>CARAS COMMUNITY ACTION FOR REFUGEES AND ASYLUM SEEKERS LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1124376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124376)]<br>CARAS (Community Action for Refugees and Asylum Seekers) is a community organisation with members from all over London. CARAS works closely with a number of organisations in south London to deliver services for refugees and asylum seekers. Projects include after school and youth clubs, ESOL classes, a women's drop-in and advocacy casework. | £598,861
<strong>SAFFRON DEAN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1059792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1059792)]<br>Saffron Dean Community Association works in partnership with other Allerton based  projects to improve the lives of people in the community.  It supports local groups through grants of funding &is developing and delivering services that includes training and development for the unemployed & activities and events for local youth & elderly. | £21,000
<strong>ACORN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION NEWTON AYCLIFFE</strong> [Charity number: [1182599](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182599)]<br>ACORN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION NEWTON AYCLIFFE is a community based charity which organises events and excursions for the benefit of the residents of Newton Aycliffe and surrounding areas. Many of our residents are of low income, unemployed, elderly or infirm. We seek to improve lives by providing experiences which otherwise would be unaffordable for many. | £4,085
<strong>HIGHFIELD COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1018758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1018758)]<br>We provide hall hire to a wide variety of groups/organisations. Our hall has a community fridge and there are many events run by our volunteers for the people of Highfield to become involved in: cash/prize bingo, psychic evenings, table top sales and our santa's grotto is not to be missed, we start the New Year with a family favourite - Panto! | £33,101
<strong>Inter Estate Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [NI105605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105605)]<br>IEP was formed as a community group and endeavours to keep community at the centre of all its goals. We currently operate out of 5 units in the Park hall estate in Antrim, throughout these units we over a range of services to the community across all Antrim areas. We have a child playgroup and afterschool club that is operated from our unit by a 3rd party we simply manage the space but can offer the services within the community through referrals and support for parents. The is also a counselling group in one of the units offering support and help with metal health. This allows us to promote this service at a growing demand through the town with mental health being a crucial aspect of life. We have engaged with various funding groups to allow us to operate non-profit programmes delivered to vulnerable in the community. Many of these programmes have worked with ex-combatants, young people, woman’s groups and areas deemed at risk. Our social enterprise business within IEP is an inflatable rental service often supplied for community fund days, summer schemes and outreach projects. This enterprise allows us to generate some income that is solely reinvested into our community work and maintenance. Inter Estate Partnership organises training and community events in many different subjects since conception we have placed members of the community on the following training • provided cultural courses • promoted emotional resilience • anti-bullying initiatives • drugs and alcohol awareness • tolerance • capacity building • health and wellbeing • leadership by example • re-enactment of several historical events • good practice visits • first aid courses • food hygiene courses • child protection courses • SIA courses • childcare support • counselling • drop in centre • community events • information on public services | £148,986
<strong>HOTHFIELD VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [278776](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278776)]<br>Management upkeep and running of Village Hall facilities and grounds; support for community activities and events for the local community and wider area.  Promotion and provision of a range of social and educational facilities within the Hall and the village. | £15,520
