# Service clubs `AS200`

Service clubs is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) categoryand the Service clubs subcategory.

298 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(grand lodge|round table)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 163 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 106 | 0.15%
£100k - £250k | 15 | 0.07%
£250k - £500k | 3 | 0.03%
£500k - £1m | 3 | 0.04%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 292 | 0.15%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 276 | 0.16%
oscr | 17 | 0.07%
ccni | 5 | 0.07%
Total | 298 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC TRUST FOR GIRLS AND BOYS</strong> [Charity number: [1170336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170336)]<br>The objects of the Charity shall be for the relief of poverty and the advancement of education by the assistance of such children inclusive of adopted children, step-children and children of the family of any age of Freemasons under the United Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of England as the Trustee consider from time to time are in need of assistance. | £5,314,000
<strong>THE GRAND LODGE OF MARK MASTER MASONS' FUND OF BENEVOLENCE</strong> [Charity number: [207610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207610)]<br>Grants to individuals and Charitable Organisation | £2,237,300
<strong>THE LIBRARY AND MUSEUM CHARITABLE TRUST OF THE UNITED GRAND LODGE</strong> [Charity number: [1058497](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058497)]<br>The Library and Museum houses one of the worlds leading collections of Masonic books, artefacts and ephemera. | £916,125
<strong>Scottish Masonic Homes Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC043070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043070)]<br>The Company is established for the advancement of charitable purposes and in particular the prevention or relief of poverty, the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by:-  (a) making grants or contributions to augment any benevolent fund of the Grand Lodge that holds charitable status.  (b) providing Homes, day care, respite care and care at home to those who are aged and worthy and in such other cases as may be considered by the Directors to be necessitous, and the building, altering, furnishing, equipping and maintaining of such Homes and the maintenance of the residents and others who benefit therein | £798,005
<strong>Grand Lodge Of Scotland Annuity Benevolent & Charity Funds</strong> [Charity number: [SC001996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001996)]<br>(a) the prevention or relief of poverty, (b) the advancement of education (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development  | £769,487
<strong>OXFORDSHIRE MASONIC CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [278761](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278761)]<br>The objects of the charity are the relief of such poor and distressed freemasons or their poor and distressed widows and children, to or for the benefit of such masonic charities or other charitable institutions, societies and objects, as the provincial Grand Lodge shall in duly constituted meeting advise. | £446,087
<strong>The Pat Finucane Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100720)]<br>- We provide support, advice and advocacy to families who have been bereaved as a result of the conflict in Ireland. - Networking with human rights NGOs and parliamentarians in Ireland and abroad. - Long-term involvement on a wide range of issues surrounding policing and the criminal justice system. Facilitating dialogue between the two communities in the North through private contacts, workshops and public meetings on potential truth processes etc. - The PFC is involved in a ‘critical engagement’ with the PSNI Legacy Investigations Branch and the Police Ombudsman. We strongly believe that the families who do decide to engage should not do so on their own and without support. The PFC also provides advocacy support to bereaved families engaging with the coronial service north and south of the border. - Conduct research & seek information through state agencies to inform casework and themes of the conflict. - Provide safe environment/location for families to meet with statutory agencies. - We have been involved in the Truth Recovery and Acknowledgement sub-group of the Healing Through Remembering Project, which is a creative initiative aimed at dealing the human rights abuses associated with the conflict. - Part of the Healing Through Remembering Stories Network to develop best practice guidelines in story-gathering -The PFC has been involved in regular round table meetings with other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to discuss models for truth recovery and a mechanism to deal with the past. | £374,747
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES GRAND LODGE OF ENGLAND COMPREHENSIVE TRUST DEED</strong> [Charity number: [220193](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220193)]<br>Provision of Grants (through direct application), to support the members of the "GLE", and their dependents (Wife, Partner, or Children) who are in need. This includes the following types of Grant: Annuities, Illness, Disability, Education, support for Convalescence, and ad-hoc or emergency grants. | £340,737
<strong>NORTHUMBERLAND MASONIC CHARITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1094245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094245)]<br>NMCA is primarily a fundraising appeal fund for all freemasons in the Masonic  Province of Northumberland. Each year one or more masonic provinces are nominated by The Grand Charity of the United Grand Lodge of England to host a Festival in aid of a designated charity. The Province of Northumberland was nominated to host a Festival in 2020 in aid of the Royal Masonic Benevolent Institution. | £248,759
<strong>WINCHESTER ROUND TABLE CHARITABLE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1046348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1046348)]<br>Raising funds, by the Winchester & District Round Table community Fund Raising Events including a Fireworks Display and a Santa's Sleigh, distributing those funds to community and individual causes primarily based in and around Winchester, in furtherance of the Community Service objective of Round Table. | £246,922


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Northampton Huntingdon & Bedford Mark Benevolent Association</strong> [Charity number: [207374](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207374)]<br>General Charitable Purposes: primarily to support the Grand Lodge of Mark Master Masons Fund of Benevolence, Reg Charity No. 207610. To provide relief from distress of defined persons and their immediate families and make discretionary grants/donations to defined organisations within the defined boundary of the Mark Province of Northampton Huntingdon &amp; Bedford. | £23,821
<strong>THE PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE OF WEST KENT PROPERTY HOLDCO LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1194646](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194646)]<br>The objects of the Charity are for the public benefit and specifically restricted to applying the capital and income to or for the relief of such poor and distressed brother masons or their poor and distressed widows and children or to or for the benefit of such masonic charities and or other charitable institutions societies and objects the Provincial Grand Charity Committee shall direct. | £12,111
<strong>WINCHESTER ROUND TABLE CHARITABLE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1046348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1046348)]<br>Raising funds, by the Winchester & District Round Table community Fund Raising Events including a Fireworks Display and a Santa's Sleigh, distributing those funds to community and individual causes primarily based in and around Winchester, in furtherance of the Community Service objective of Round Table. | £246,922
<strong>HONITON AND DISTRICT ROUND TABLE - CHARITY ACCOUNT</strong> [Charity number: [1052900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052900)]<br>Makes grants to individualsMakes grants to organisationsProvides human resources | £6,016
<strong>COVENTRY ROUND TABLE CHARITABLE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1048799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048799)]<br>Round Table general fundraising | £24,646
<strong>Provincial Grand Lodge Of Dumbarton No X11 Charity Funds</strong> [Charity number: [SC003622](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003622)]<br>The prevention and relief of poverty. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £28,636
<strong>The Pat Finucane Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100720)]<br>- We provide support, advice and advocacy to families who have been bereaved as a result of the conflict in Ireland. - Networking with human rights NGOs and parliamentarians in Ireland and abroad. - Long-term involvement on a wide range of issues surrounding policing and the criminal justice system. Facilitating dialogue between the two communities in the North through private contacts, workshops and public meetings on potential truth processes etc. - The PFC is involved in a ‘critical engagement’ with the PSNI Legacy Investigations Branch and the Police Ombudsman. We strongly believe that the families who do decide to engage should not do so on their own and without support. The PFC also provides advocacy support to bereaved families engaging with the coronial service north and south of the border. - Conduct research & seek information through state agencies to inform casework and themes of the conflict. - Provide safe environment/location for families to meet with statutory agencies. - We have been involved in the Truth Recovery and Acknowledgement sub-group of the Healing Through Remembering Project, which is a creative initiative aimed at dealing the human rights abuses associated with the conflict. - Part of the Healing Through Remembering Stories Network to develop best practice guidelines in story-gathering -The PFC has been involved in regular round table meetings with other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to discuss models for truth recovery and a mechanism to deal with the past. | £374,747
<strong>LANCASTER ROUND TABLE NO 160 CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1102726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102726)]<br>Raise income, primarily through our annual Beer Festival. Distribute monies for charitable purposes, predominantly to causes in the local area. | £952
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES GLE STAFFORD AND DISTRICT PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [254768](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-254768)]<br>benevolent organisation | 
<strong>ROYAL ANTEDILUVIAN ORDER OF BUFFALOES G L E TAUNTON PROVINCIAL GRAND LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [253542](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-253542)]<br>FOR THE RELIEF OR BENEFIT OF NECESSITOUS BRETHREN OF THE ORDER AND OF NECESSITOUS WIDOWS ORPHANS OR DEPENDENTS OF DECEASED BRETHREN OF THE ORDER. | 
