# Lions club `AS201`

Lions club is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) categoryand the Service clubs subcategory.

543 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.27% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(lions? clubs?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 220 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 271 | 0.38%
£100k - £250k | 21 | 0.09%
£250k - £500k | 1 | 0.01%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 513 | 0.27%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 528 | 0.31%
ccni | 8 | 0.11%
oscr | 7 | 0.03%
Total | 543 | 0.27%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LIONS CLUBS INTERNATIONAL MD 105 APPEAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [283799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283799)]<br>To further the relief of poverty, hunger, distress and sickness through empowering Lions Clubs International Foundation.  No defined area of benefit. | £389,385
<strong>LISKEARD LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1205534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205534)]<br>Provide support local residents and groups for the benefit of the community, and annual events such as the carnival and pantomime. | £233,296
<strong>LIONS CLUBS INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT 105CE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1182330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182330)]<br>LIONS ARE ORDINARY PEOPLE WHO DO EXTRAORDINARY THINGS TO HELP OTHERS AND SUPPORT GOOD CAUSES THROUGHOUT THE BRITISH ISLES. GLOBALLY WE HAVE MORE VOLUNTEERS IN MORE PLACES THAN ANY OTHER SERVICE CLUB ORGANISATION, AND LOVE TO HELP OTHERS AND MAKE THINGS HAPPEN.  BECAUSE WE ARE LOCAL, WE SERVE THE UNIQUE NEEDS OF THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE LIVE. | £199,006
<strong>LIONS CLUBS INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT 105SE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1158845](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158845)]<br>Distribution of donations made to the Fund by member Lions Clubs of District 105SE; and other organisations, the General Public and donors to the foundation. The Foundation Raises funds to support Disaster Relief and to support projects which meet its objectives mainly in South-east England | £184,625
<strong>LIONS CLUBS INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT 105SW FOUNDATION (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1189573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189573)]<br>The Lions Foundation serves the local community as well as helping people internationally. Their work with people who are elderly, disabled and/or disadvantaged, benefits not only those who are helped, but also the wider community by making communities in Cornwall, Devon, Dorset & Somerset better places to live and work. They also make grants to some national and international appeals. | £184,241
<strong>LIONS CLUBS INTERNATIONAL DISTRICT 105CN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1190158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190158)]<br>The primary function of the CIO Foundation is to receive donations raised by Lions Clubs and to distribute the income to various identified beneficiaries | £180,713
<strong>CRANLEIGH AND DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1183809](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183809)]<br>Cranleigh and District Lions Club CIO accepts charitable donations from the public and works hard to generate funds, organise community events and fund raising activities in order to donate funds to those local individuals, families, organisations and charities who are in need and also to support wider good causes and Lions projects. | £171,778
<strong>HORNSEA DISTRICT LIONS CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1171122](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171122)]<br>Charity raising Funds via a Local Charity Shop, those funds dissapaited via grant funding or donations to other local community groups and organisations within the town and it surrounding villages. | £167,112
<strong>WOKINGHAM LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1180632](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180632)]<br>Wokingham Lions Club exists to serve our local community and those in need in the wider world, through the Lions Clubs International Foundation, by providing support and financial assistance. | £162,161
<strong>WESTON-SUPER-MARE LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1182704](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182704)]<br>General Charitable Purposes including giving grants to young or elderly people, people with disabilities and the general public. Also making grants to other organisations and  taking part in other charitable activities. | £153,117


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HETHERSETT DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1179036](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179036)]<br>Our activities include:- Providing car parking duties at events.  Taking our Candy Floss stalls to events.Holding quiz nights, raffles, bingo etc.Providing a used spectacles collection service.All activities are carried out by our Members within the local community. | £11,112
<strong>WINTERTON AND DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1208598](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208598)]<br>3.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE CLUB ARE SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE IN ENGLAND & WALES, INCLUDING IN PARTICULAR:3.1.1 THE ADVANCEMENT OF CITIZENSHIP BY:3.1.1.1 PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP;3.1.1.2 ENCOURAGING MEMBERS TO TAKE AN ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE CIVIC, CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND MORAL WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY;3.1.1.3 PROVIDING A FORUM FOR THE OPEN DISCUSSION OF ALL MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST; PROVIDED THAT PARTISAN POLITICS AND SECTARIAN RELIGION SHALL NOT BE DEBATED BY MEMBERS;3.1.1.4 ENCOURAGING SERVICE-MINDED PEOPLE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITY WITHOUT PERSONAL REWARD AND ENCOURAGING THE PROMOTION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS IN COMMERCE, INDUSTRY, PROFESSIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND PRIVATE ENDEAVOURS; 3.1.1.5 SUPPORTING YOUTH TO DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;3.1.2 PROMOTING THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY ASSOCIATING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF PEOPLE IN LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES;3.1.3 PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING;3.1.4 THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID AND DISASTER RELIEF;3.1.5 THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH OR THE SAVING OF LIVES BY PREVENTING AVOIDABLE BLINDNESS, ASSISTING DISABLED PEOPLE TO LEAD INDEPENDENT LIVES OR HELPING TO PREVENT OR MANAGE HEALTH ISSUES;3.1.6 PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND/OR3.1.7 PROMOTING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTHY RECREATION. | £35,912
<strong>ACCRINGTON LIONS CLUB CHARITY TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1035385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1035385)]<br>General fund raising activities and distribution thereof to appropriate causes in accordance with the policies of Lions Clubs International | £13,858
<strong>LIONS CLUB OF NORTHWOOD CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1207686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207686)]<br>3.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE CLUB ARE SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE IN ENGLAND & WALES, INCLUDING IN PARTICULAR: 3.1.1 THE ADVANCEMENT OF CITIZENSHIP BY: 3.1.1.1 PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP; 3.1.1.2 ENCOURAGING MEMBERS TO TAKE AN ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE CIVIC, CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND MORAL WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY; 3.1.1.3 PROVIDING A FORUM FOR THE OPEN DISCUSSION OF ALL MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST; PROVIDED THAT PARTISAN POLITICS AND SECTARIAN RELIGION SHALL NOT BE DEBATED BY MEMBERS; 3.1.1.4 ENCOURAGING SERVICE-MINDED PEOPLE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITY WITHOUT PERSONAL REWARD AND ENCOURAGING THE PROMOTION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS IN COMMERCE, INDUSTRY, PROFESSIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND PRIVATE ENDEAVOURS; 3.1.1.5 SUPPORTING YOUTH TO DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS; 3.1.2 PROMOTING THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY ASSOCIATING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF PEOPLE IN LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES; 3.1.3 PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING; 3.1.4 THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID AND DISASTER RELIEF; 3.1.5 THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH OR THE SAVING OF LIVES BY PREVENTING AVOIDABLE BLINDNESS, ASSISTING DISABLED PEOPLE TO LEAD INDEPENDENT LIVES OR HELPING TO PREVENT OR MANAGE HEALTH ISSUES; 3.1.6 PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND/OR 3.1.7 PROMOTING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTHY RECREATION. | £6,841
<strong>LANCASTER AND MORECAMBE LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1189252](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189252)]<br>Provide grants to deserving causes within the Lancaster, Morecambe and Heysham areas of North West England, District 105CN areas & and Multiple District 105 areas of Lions Clubs International, British Isles. We also undertakes a number of local community service projects. Examples of such projects include: Community food club, Toys for needy families at Christmas, Dementia drop in centre. | £18,221
<strong>ALLENDALE LIONS CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1173463](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173463)]<br>Allendale Lions Club is a member of the International Association of Lions Clubs. The club raises funds to run community events and  to benefit and serve the Allen Valley area. The funds raised are used to provide grants  to support local causes in the main, and occasionally national and international causes. Administrative costs are met from donations paid by club members. | £4,884
<strong>WEYMOUTH & PORTLAND LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1200524](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200524)]<br>Weymouth & Portland Lions Club organises fund raising events and then gives the funds out in the form of grants. | £29,656
<strong>REDBRIDGE CENTENNIAL LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1175726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175726)]<br>Fund 400 eye operations in India.Recycle Eye Glasses for reuse in the world.Fed 50 homeless hungry people every month. Hot food cooked, and served.Environmentally; RCLC have funded the planting of 15 trees every year at Yorkshire Dales Millennium Trust site to create a new Woodland.Fund 50 x 11 year old girls in Redbridge Schools with their Hockey kits.Free Support Senior Citizens party | £8,679
<strong>READING LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1193075](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193075)]<br>Reading Lions is a local group of volunteers who aim to promote the health and wellbeing of the Reading community by improving the local environment, helping individuals in times of need, supporting Reading based community groups and local charities. Every penny raised goes into our community projects. Our aim is to serve the people of Reading and make a difference. | £41,186
<strong>BOURNE LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1208491](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208491)]<br>Bourne Lions Club serves the local community as well as helping people internationally. Working withpeople who are elderly, disabled and/or disadvantaged benefits not only those who are helped, but alsothe wider community by making Bourne and surrounding District in Lincolnshire abetter place to live and work. We also make grants to national and international appeals from Lions Clubs Inter. | 
