# Rotary club `AS202`

Rotary club is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) categoryand the Service clubs subcategory.

1,175 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.58% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(rotary club)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 478 | 0.67%
£10k - £100k | 670 | 0.95%
£100k - £250k | 9 | 0.04%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 1,157 | 0.60%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,080 | 0.63%
oscr | 90 | 0.36%
ccni | 5 | 0.07%
Total | 1,175 | 0.58%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Rotary Club of Whitstable</strong> [Charity number: [1023624](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1023624)]<br>General charitable purposes | £176,000
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF BOURNEMOUTH CHARITIES FUND</strong> [Charity number: [255377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-255377)]<br>The provision of support in the relief of the sick and lonely and the old people resident within the territorial limits of the Rotary Club of Bournemouth and for any other charitable object the selection of the recipients or charitable object to be in the discretion of the members of the Rotary Club of Bournemouth represented in duly constituted Club Council. | £175,239
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF LEATHERHEAD BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1032183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032183)]<br>The support of local and Rotary charities. These may involve young,disadvantaged or elderly people. Some may be for projects overseas especially areas of special need following natural disasters. | £169,979
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF YORK CHARITY FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1025046](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1025046)]<br>The raising and use of funds to support worthy charitable causes, locally, nationally and internationally in furtherance of the objects of Rotary. | £139,440
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF SWINDON TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [262835](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-262835)]<br>The Rotary club of Swindon raises funds to support a variety of local, national and international charities and organisations. Funds are raised through public collections and various fundraising events including the annual charity ball. We welcome applications for financial support, particularly from local charities and organisations. | £135,816
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF BATH TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [267664](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-267664)]<br>The objects of the trust are to apply both the capital & income thereof to or for the relief of the poor & needy or to or for other charitable purpose institution society or object as the Club shall in duly constituted meeting from time to time direct.Activities of Trust Fund during this period have been receipt of monies & the disbursement thereof as detailed in accounts. | £135,488
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF STURMINSTER NEWTON TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1032363](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032363)]<br>FUND RAISING FOR LOCAL AND INTERNATIONAL CAUSES.LOCAL ASSISTANCE AS REQUESTED AND FEASIBLE. | £127,777
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF ROMSEY TEST TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1029525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029525)]<br>The charity works to provide humanitarian help and assistance both locally and internationally to alleviate suffering, and to help the needy. Members provide voluntary service and organise fund raising in order to achieve these objectives | £111,485
<strong>Rotary Club Of Perth Charitable Trust Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC034379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034379)]<br>The moneys specified in the schedule hereto belong to the Rotary Club of Perth in the County of Perthshire Scotland (hereinafter called 'the Club') and it is proposed that they shall be devoted by the Club to charitable objects and purposes. | £103,915
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF WOKING DISTRICT TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1024154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1024154)]<br>Raising money for Local and International Charities | £99,903


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF KEYNSHAM TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1030596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1030596)]<br>To raise money by holding such events as a Harvest Supper, President's Picnic, Concerts etc.By collecting at local stores. By sponsorship. By donation.To donate money to other worthy nominated, in sponsoring local young people in worthy endevours. Rotary charities in general | £1,521
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF PENZANCE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1027839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1027839)]<br>Rotary Club - see area of operatioon | £28,656
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF TORMOHUN (TORQUAY)  NO 1359 TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1043600](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1043600)]<br>Rotary Club - non-political, humanitarian organisation. | £20,903
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF DISS AND DISTRICT TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1116053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116053)]<br>To or for the relief of the poor and needy or such other charitable purposes as the club shall in duly constituted meetings from time to time direct | £30,112
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF NORTH FYLDE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1029187](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029187)]<br>Raising money to help rotary charitable projects and local good causes. | £5,582
<strong>WINCHCOMBE ROTARY TRUST FUND CHARITABLE INCORPORATED ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1184913](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184913)]<br>We are a local Rotary Club who raise funds to provide charitable grants to Charities and Needy causes with links to Rotary Charities or the Winchcombe locality | £36,536
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF DERBY DAYBREAK</strong> [Charity number: [1086825](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086825)]<br>Local charity activities for Rotary causes | £8,851
<strong>Gourock Rotary Charitable Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC053056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053056)]<br>To assist, facilitate or enable the Rotary Club of Gourock (a member club of Rotary International in Great Britain & Ireland) to plan, prepare, organise and deliver projects within its local community and, where the management committee deems it appropriate, within Scotland and internationally ('Projects') in accordance with the current Areas of Focus of Rotary International, namely: (i) Promoting peace. Rotary encourages conversations to foster understanding within and across cultures thus working towards the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (ii) Fighting disease thus working towards the advancement of health and saving lives. (iii) Providing clean water, sanitation, and hygiene thus working towards the advancement of health and the relief of those in need. (iv) Saving mothers and children thus working towards the advancement of health and saving lives. (v) Supporting citizens of all ages in the development of skills and knowledge thus working towards the advancement of education. (vi) Growing local economies thus contributing towards the prevention and/or relief of poverty and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantage. (vii) Reducing the rate and/or incidence of environmental degradation thus working towards the advancement of environmental protection or improvement. and  (viii) Such other Projects that are reasonably analogous to the foregoing purposes as the management committee and the members of the association shall approve. | 
<strong>The Rotary Club of Dunfermline Trust Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC044483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044483)]<br>The Trustees hereby declare that the Trustees shall hold and apply the Trust Fund and all other monies which may from time to time be received by the Trustees (whether such monies shall arise from donations bequests deeds of covenant or from any other source) and also the investments for the time being representing the same (all of which are hereinafter included in the expression 'the Trust Fund') UPON TRUST to apply both the capital and income thereof to or for, the relief of the poor and needy or such other' charitable purposes as the Club shall in duly constituted meeting from time to time direct | £56,287
<strong>The Rotary Club of Braids Charitable Trust Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC042968](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042968)]<br>to apply both the capital and income thereof to or for the relief of the poor and needy or such other charitable purposes as the Club shall in duly constituted meeting from time to time direct | £21,492
