# Scouting `AS303`

Scouting is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](/data/ukcat/AS) categoryand the Youth Groups subcategory.

4,532 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.25% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(scout troop|scouting|scouts|scout groups?|scout(s)? and guide(s)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,531 | 1.85%
£10k - £100k | 2,818 | 4.34%
£100k - £250k | 96 | 0.50%
£250k - £500k | 21 | 0.23%
£500k - £1m | 11 | 0.19%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.09%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 4,485 | 2.34%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 3,779 | 2.24%
oscr | 526 | 2.07%
ccni | 227 | 3.19%
Total | 4,532 | 2.25%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SCOUT ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [306101](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306101)]<br>SCOUTING ACTIVELY ENGAGES AND SUPPORTS YOUNG PEOPLE IN THEIR PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT, EMPOWERING THEM TO MAKE A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY. | £30,013,000
<strong>WORLD ASSOCIATION OF GIRL GUIDES AND GIRL SCOUTS</strong> [Charity number: [1159255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159255)]<br>The World Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts is dedicated to girls and young women in the world. Our diverse Movement represents ten million girls and young women from 150 countries.  Girl Guiding and Girl Scouting transforms the lives of girls and young women worldwide, supporting and empowering them to achieve their fullest potential and become responsible citizens of the world. | £4,790,000
<strong>Scouts Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC017511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017511)]<br>The purpose of Scouting is to actively engage and support young people in their personal development, empowering them to make a positive contribution to society. | £2,269,822
<strong>Whitewell Metropolitan Tabernacle</strong> [Charity number: [NI100670](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100670)]<br>The Church holds and conducts regular public worship services at least 6 times a week,this includes Sunday and Wednesday night services being broadcast live on the internet.There are a number of youth ministries which occur in the Church throughout school term time these include Girls Brigade, Scouts, Spark (youth club for children under 11 years of age) Impact (youth club for children aged 11–15) Junior Choir, Children’s Church,Creche and numerous Sunday Schools.“The Well” takes place every Saturday throughout the year, this provides a safe environment for young people of the province and local area to meet have fellowship and socialise. The Church has various ministries which take place regularly throughout the year including: The Befrienders ministry offering friendship and encouragement to disabled persons Grief Share is a ministry for those who have been bereaved Men’s and ladies fellowship.The Rock is a ministry for adults The Senior Choir.Blaze Outreach, this is a programme for “The Well” to encourage young people of the province to attend and to follow the Gospel of Jesus Christ Door to Door ministry encourages individuals throughout the province to come to the Tabernacle and share with them the Gospel.The Rainbow Hope Puppet Ministry, they attend youth clubs and schools to share the Gospel of Jesus Christ with both children and adults Bus ministry,this provides transport throughout the province to any individual who wishes to attend the Tabernacle’s services.As well as the above there are a number of Bible Study groups and classes which take place within the Church.The Tabernacle has founded and continues to support two great foreign missionary projects one in Ethiopia and one in Kenya.These missions help relieve severe poverty in the local areas by assisting in the provision of food and clothing. In addition the missions help provide religious and secular education to the children and adults of the area and assists in the provision of medical care. | £1,358,477
<strong>GREENWICH ISLAMIC CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [271301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271301)]<br>There was quite a considerable maintenance of the building and services undertaken through out the year. The trend will continue in the coming years.A number of children's and youth activities were carried out during school summer holidays. A Scout Group operated from the Centre, run by dedicated volunteers and supported by other similar Scout Groups.Primarily, a place of worship. | £1,056,316
<strong>SCOUT ASSOCIATION COUNTY OF BIRMINGHAM</strong> [Charity number: [524566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524566)]<br>Scouting in Birmingham provides fun and adventurous activities for young people from the city, so helping them to grow in confidence and challenging them to reach their potential as individuals, as responsible citizens and as members of their communities. | £1,029,665
<strong>Clyde Scouts</strong> [Charity number: [SC010415](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010415)]<br>Scouting exists to actively engage and support young people in their personal development, empowering them to make a positive contribution to society | £1,029,219
<strong>READING YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [1140731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140731)]<br>Supported Housing  for 40 YP aged 16-25 Training & Support; Community  Cafe & Pre-School, Workshop for alternative education. Sports Centre and facilities for fitness and social activities. Links with 1st Reading Sea Scouts.   Strategic aims - Be a leading voluntary Christian faith based organisation & an exemplar in work with young people in supported housing, children & youth work & leadership. | £1,013,021
<strong>WALESBY FOREST</strong> [Charity number: [1147348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147348)]<br>To promote the development of young people, allowing them to achieve their full physical, intellectual, social and spiritual potential as individuals, as responsible citizens and Trustees of their local, national and international communities.To provide one of the best and safest activities centre for scouting, guiding, schools, other organised groups and other participants. | £993,741
<strong>BLACKWELL ADVENTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1121161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121161)]<br>PROVIDE RESIDENTIAL AND OUTDOOR ADVENTURE ACTIVITIES FOR SCOUTS, GIRL GUIDES AND OTHER YOUTH GROUPS BOTH VOLUNTARY AND STATUTORY. PROVIDE SIMILAR ACTIVITIES TO SCHOOLS AND COLLEGES  WITHIN THE NATIONAL CURRICULUM AND PROVIDE TEAM BUILDING ACTIVITIES TO ADULTS. | £885,826


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>23rd Fife 1st Leven Scout Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC035344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC035344)]<br>Scouting exists to actively engage and support young people in their personal development, empowering them to make a positive contribution to society. | £25,579
<strong>26TH MIDDLESBROUGH (SETTLEMENT) SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1068619](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068619)]<br>Scouting including outdoor activities, camping etc. | £873
<strong>14TH REIGATE SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [305785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305785)]<br>The group is registered with the Scout Association and operates in the South Park area of Reigate providing activities for children aged 6-18 years old in a fun safe environment. The programme includes adventurous activities, camping and challenges to promote confidence, teamwork and leadership skills. New leaders and adult supporters always welcome. | £14,978
<strong>YARMOUTH GUIDE AND SCOUT SUPPORTERS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1095789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095789)]<br>We provide a building in Yarmouth, Isle of Wight, in which rainbows, brownies, guides, beaver scouts, cub scouts and Yarmouth sea scouts can hold their meetings. | £8,521
<strong>1ST CONSETT SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [520349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-520349)]<br>Range of educational, training, sport and recreational activiites - indoor and outdoor - for young people aged 6 to 14 | £37,726
<strong>89TH STOKE-ON-TRENT AND NEWCASTLE SEA SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [524543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524543)]<br>Training young people | £41,584
<strong>1ST POTTON SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [274416](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-274416)]<br>Scouting exists to actively engage and support young people in their personal development, empowering them to make a positive contribution to society. | £23,208
<strong>1ST NORTHOLT SEA SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [303633](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-303633)]<br>Activities included each sections own weekly meetings and outtines, participation in several events organised by the Greenford and District Scount Council, a Scout camp, boating activities and a camp for Cubs at the Southall Activity Centre.Fund raising continued throughout the year towards the ongoing upkeep of the property and purchasing new equipment. | £22,984
<strong>WILTSHIRE NORTH DISTRICT SCOUT COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [305942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305942)]<br>As Scouts, we believe in preparing young people with skills for life. The Wiltshire North District Scout Council supports Explorer Scout Units and the Scout Groups across North Wiltshire to encourage the young people to do more, learn more and be more. Each week, we support our members by providing the opportunity to enjoy fun and adventure while developing the skills they need to succeed. | £55,953
<strong>PARISH HALL AND PLAYING FIELDS</strong> [Charity number: [522536](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-522536)]<br>Providing and maintaining facilities for people in a rural area to meet and participate in cultural, educational, social and sports activities at a reasonable cost. Organisations and activities include Table Tennis, W.I., Scouts, Pilates, Whist, Flicks in the Sticks and Quilting. The Hall is used for funeral teas, children and family parties & the local primary school on a regular basis. | £21,296
