# Cadets `AS301`

Cadets is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) categoryand the Youth Groups subcategory.

712 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.35% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cadets?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 327 | 0.44%
£10k - £100k | 342 | 0.50%
£100k - £250k | 11 | 0.05%
£250k - £500k | 5 | 0.05%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 9 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.15%
Total | 699 | 0.37%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 447 | 0.26%
oscr | 250 | 1.01%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 712 | 0.35%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Marine Society and Sea Cadets</strong> [Charity number: [SC037808](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037808)]<br>1. To promote the development of young people in achieving their physical, intellectual and social potential as individuals and as responsible citizens by the provision of education and leisure time activities using a nautical theme 2. To advance the education of Seafarers in such ways as the Council shall determine but including (at the discretion of the Council) the following: (a) the provision in ships and on shore of a comprehensive library service in any media for the use of Seafarers. (b) the assistance of persons preparing for or entering upon a maritime career by the provision of training, the payment of fees, maintenance and other expenses and the making of loans. (c) the award to Seafarers of scholarships, bursaries and maintenance allowances tenable at nautical or other schools or training establishments: (d) the making of grants or loans to nautical or other schools or training establishments which are charities or to other organisations established for charitable purposes only which provide facilities for and encourage young persons to become Seafarers 3. The advancement of the education of the public in maritime matters. 4. The promotion of scientific or other research of particular benefit to Seafarers and the publication of the useful results of such research. 5. The provision in the interests of the social welfare of Seafarers of facilities for recreation and other leisure-time occupation, being facilities which will improve their conditions of life and of which they have need by reason of their social and economic circumstances. 6. The relief of financial hardship among Seafarers and their dependants. | £16,503,000
<strong>THE MARINE SOCIETY AND SEA CADETS</strong> [Charity number: [313013](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313013)]<br>Promoting Sea Cadet activity. Supporting the maritime industry.  Franchisor and primary support for Sea Cadet units ? local groups constituted as separately registered charities.Supporting the maritime industry through the Marine Society, allowing seafarers access to lifelong learning opportunities, a ships? library service, and the provision of financial support for professional advancement. | £16,503,000
<strong>NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [219858](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219858)]<br>Running courses to encourage entry to and development of target shooting. Provision of facilities for target shooting.  Governance of fullbore target shooting. Organising target shooting competitions.  Providing a centre of excellence for the use of its members, Regular Services, Reserve Forces and Cadets. | £10,022,504
<strong>Royal Marines Association - The Royal Marines Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC048185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048185)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are 3.1.1 To maintain and increase the efficiency and esprit de corps of the Royal Marines including the Royal Marines Reserve. 3.1.2 To assist or benefit persons serving in or who have served in the Royal Marines or the Royal Marines Reserve or of such dependents, wives, widows, issue or immediate close family of such persons as may for the time being be in need of charitable assistance or benefit. 3.1.3 To support the Royal Marines including the Royal Marines Reserve, the Marine Cadet Section of the Sea Cadet Corps, the Marine Cadet Section of the Combined Cadet Force and the Royal Marines Volunteer Cadet Corps by any other charitable means as the Trustees shall from time to time permit. | £7,724,037
<strong>The Police Treatment Centres</strong> [Charity number: [SC043396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043396)]<br>The Charity's objects are specifically restricted to the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of ill health, disability or other disadvantage and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Police Service for the public benefit in particular but not limited to: 5.1 Provide treatment and/or facilities for ill or injured police officers to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.2 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, for retired police officers and police cadets who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.3 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, in significant and unique cases to members of a policing organisation who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing.  | £6,809,156
<strong>Army Cadet Charitable Trust UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039057)]<br>4(1) To give mental, moral and physical training to young people and so to form and develop the character of each as to enable them to make a good start in life and to develop in them principles of good citizenship.  4(2) To promote the efficiency of the Army Cadet Force through fostering the activities of Army Cadets and advancing the youth leadership abilities of Army Cadet Force Adult Volunteers  | £4,413,652
<strong>Army Cadet Charitable Trust UK</strong> [Charity number: [305962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305962)]<br>The Association is dedicated to promoting the ideals and activities of the Army Cadet Force, a national, military themed, voluntary youth movement open to boys and girls of all backgrounds and abilities.  In providing educational, adventurous, competitve and social activities the Association's key priorities are citizenship development, leadership training, and confidence building. | £4,413,652
<strong>St John Ambulance (NI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI103839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103839)]<br>St John Ambulance(NI) provides first aid, and health & safety training, first aid services including event coverage, ambulance services including patient transfers, youth development and emergency planning and resilience. Our reports show that 3360 people were trained through SJA(NI) work related first aid courses in 2014 together with the delivery of 176 courses in child care, sports injuries and health & safety sectors. In 2014 our 990 adult volunteers responded to support the public attending, the Giro D’Italia in Belfast, the Clipper festival in Londonderry, the Walled City Tattoo, the Portrush Air Show, the North West 200, Ulster Grand Prix, the Ulster Rally and Ulster Rugby in addition to numerous local smaller community events. (In all cases SJA(NI) services were free to members of the public treated at point of delivery – 4627 casualties were treated.) In 2014, 3548 patients were transported with the services free to those members of the public requiring transportation; our reports show that SJA(NI) supports annually on average 600 cadets (10-18years) and 300 badgers (5-10years) providing development in core subjects such as first aid & care related competencies; SJA(NI) fleet of first aid vehicles & trained volunteers supported the emergency services in 2014, for example responding to a number of alerts to airports, and a major incident at the Odyssey Complex in Belfast thus freeing the emergency ambulance services to protect the public in health matters. Feedback through our appraisal systems is consistently highly appreciative of all of SJA(NI) services. SJA(NI) received funding from the Uniformed Youth Social Action Fund in 2015 to enable further recruitment of young people from disadvantaged areas and the delivery of first aid courses free of charge to the young offenders and women currently resident in Hydebank Wood, Belfast | £1,413,228
<strong>Combined Cadet Force Association </strong> [Charity number: [SC048021](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048021)]<br>4. The Charity?s objects (the Objects) are for the public benefit:   (1) To develop the physical, mental, spiritual, moral and cultural capacity of young persons, and an understanding of personal values, through education in the context of adventurous and military style training, so that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and members of society.   (2) To cultivate confidence, teamwork, judgement and powers of communication so that their conditions of life may be improved.   (3) To promote the efficiency of the Combined Cadet Force through fostering cadet activity and advancing the youth leadership abilities of Cadet Force Adult Volunteers.  | £1,355,239
<strong>COMBINED CADET FORCE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1170994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170994)]<br>To: act as an adviser to the MoD and HMG on CCF matters; act as a source of information and advice for Contingent Commanders and CCF Officers; promote the CCF; provide financial grants to CCF cadets to assist their development; and, provide financial grants to CCF Contingents in order to help them establish or become more sustainable. | £1,355,239


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Air Training Corps No 52 (Aviemore) Squadron Non-Public Sports & Welfare Funds</strong> [Charity number: [SC043672](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043672)]<br>The purpose of the Squadron Association (‘the Association’) is to fully support the squadron commander to further the objects of the Air Training Corps (‘the ATC’) as contained in the Schedule to the Royal Warrant as amended from time to time but in particular to support activities which foster the spirit of adventure amongst the squadron’s cadets and develop their qualities of leadership and good citizenship. | £18
<strong>Bromley Sea Cadets</strong> [Charity number: [302948](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302948)]<br>To help young people towards responsible adulthood by encouraging valuable personal attributes and high standards of conduct, using a nautical theme based on the customs of the Royal Navy. | £16,954
<strong>LOUGHBOROUGH UNIT 223 OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [521461](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521461)]<br>WE PROVIDE INSTRUCTION IN A WIDE VARIETY OF SUBJECTS AND AID YOUNG PEOPLE GAIN QUALIFICATIONS IN AREAS THAT INTEREST THEM. WE TEACH THEM LEADERSHIP SKILLS , TEAM WORK AND WORK ETHICS. WE HELP THEM BECOME USEFUL, RESPONSABLE  MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY AND SOC. WE TAKE 10 TO 18 YEAR OLDS FROM TOWNS AND VILLAGES CLOSE TO LOUGHBOROUGH. WE PROVIDE THEM WITH OPPORTUNITIES TO GO AWAY AT REDUCED PRICES. | £19,897
<strong>WELLING CADET FORCES FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1176753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176753)]<br>The Welling Cadet Forces Foundation (WCFF) is looking purchase land to establish a cadet training centre for the long-term benefit of the youth of Welling and the surrounding area. The land, buildings and facilities will support and develop the creation of new Welling cadet groups, whilst supporting the activities of the cadet forces and Welling residents who are cadets. | 
<strong>Army Cadet Force League (West Lowland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC002197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002197)]<br>To promote an interest in the Army Cadet Force (ACF) West Lowland Battalion among the citizens and industrial firms in the Counties of Ayrshire, Renfrewshire, Wigtownshire, Kirkcudbrightshire and Dumfriesshire and further afield with anyone or any organisation willing to support the cadets within the Battalion. To support the West Lowland Battalion ACF. To collect and receive all monies given by voluntary contributions, annual subscriptions, donations, gifts and legacies. To make grants from League funds to the West Lowland Battalion ACF for the good and benefit of the cadets within the Battalion  | £13,047
<strong>Stewartry Unit (No 558) of the Sea Cadet Corps</strong> [Charity number: [SC011389](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011389)]<br>2.1 The charitable purpose of the Unit (the Purpose) is to promote the development of young people in achieving their physical, intellectual and social potential as individuals and as responsible citizens by the provision of education and leisure time activities using a nautical theme and in accordance with the principles, ethos and practices of the Marine Society & Sea Cadets  (MSSC).    In furtherance of the Purpose, the Unit may:   a.	offer young people a structured environment in which to develop. b.	provide access to education and training including (but not restricted to): sailing (inshore and offshore), paddle sports, power boating, seamanship, navigation, marine engineering, cooking, music, first aid, drill, piping, and public service. c.	provide opportunities for young people to obtain a range of qualifications. and d.	provide opportunities for community involvement. | £3,203
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Glenurquhart Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC029894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029894)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £529
<strong>GUILDFORD UNIT OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [1171483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171483)]<br>Provides facilities and personnel (voluntary) to enable young people (male & female) to take part in recreational & instructional activities under the general 'umbrella' of the Marine Society and Sea Cadet organisation. Having premises directly adjacent to the River Wey in Guildford, the unit's main focus is on outdoor and indoor marine pursuits. | £29,109
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Stromness Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC030952](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030952)]<br>CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £4,625
<strong>Rosyth Unit (No 114) of the Sea Cadet Corps</strong> [Charity number: [SC023797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023797)]<br>2.1 The charitable purpose of the Unit (the Purpose) is to promote the development of young people in achieving their physical, intellectual and social potential as individuals and as responsible citizens by the provision of education and leisure time activities using a nautical theme and in accordance with the principles, ethos and practices of the Marine Society & Sea Cadets  (MSSC).    In furtherance of the Purpose, the Unit may:   a.	offer young people a structured environment in which to develop. b.	provide access to education and training including (but not restricted to): sailing (inshore and offshore), paddle sports, power boating, seamanship, navigation, marine engineering, cooking, music, first aid, drill, piping, and public service. c.	provide opportunities for young people to obtain a range of qualifications. and d.	provide opportunities for community involvement. | £17,638
