# Girlguiding `AS302`

Girlguiding is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](/data/ukcat/AS) categoryand the Youth Groups subcategory.

1,959 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.97% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(girlguiding|brownies?|guiding activities)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,611 | 1.92%
£10k - £100k | 287 | 0.45%
£100k - £250k | 21 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 5 | 0.06%
£500k - £1m | 5 | 0.09%
£1m - £10m | 1 | 0.01%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 1,930 | 1.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 511 | 0.30%
ccni | 572 | 8.20%
oscr | 876 | 3.44%
Total | 1,959 | 0.97%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Guide Association Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC005548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005548)]<br>The Aim of Girlguiding Scotland is to help girls and young women develop emotionally, mentally, physically and spiritually so that they can make a positive contribution to their community and wider world according to the principles of the association, and to facilitate Guiding for girls and young women in Scotland. | £1,764,812
<strong>THE GUIDE ASSOCIATION LONDON AND SOUTH EAST ENGLAND REGION</strong> [Charity number: [308268](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-308268)]<br> Leaders enabled Rainbows, Brownies, Guides and Senior Section members to enjoy a full programme of activities following the Guide Association programme for young girls and women. | £845,648
<strong>The Guide Association In Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI103728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103728)]<br>Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: •working together in small groups •encouraging self-government and decision making •a balanced and varied programme •caring for the individual •sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £666,003
<strong>THE GUIDE ASSOCIATION SOUTH-WEST ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [305951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305951)]<br>Girlguiding South West England provides a range of activities and opportunities for girls and young women aged from 5 years to adult in Berkshire, Hampshire, Wiltshire, Bristol, Gloucestershire, Somerset, Dorset, Devon, Cornwall, Isle of Wight, Jersey and Guernsey. | £655,499
<strong>THE GUIDE ASSOCIATION NORTH WEST ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [521654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521654)]<br>Girlguiding North West England enables girls and young women to develop their potential through supporting and valuing its leaders.  Our vision is to widen and increase our membership to enable all girls and young women to have the opportunity to develop their potential through guiding. | £529,836
<strong>GUIDES CYMRU</strong> [Charity number: [521209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521209)]<br>Girlguiding Cymru is the largest organisation for girls and young women in Wales. It offers an unique environment where they can grow and develop in a safe, girl only space.  The programme of activities is relevant to today's girl and actively promotes equality and diversity. Guiding gives girls and young women a voice. | £514,836
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF NORTH LAMBETH</strong> [Charity number: [1134717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134717)]<br>North Lambeth Parish uses its Churches and halls to further its stated mission. We provide space and supervision to the following:- Scouts, Cubs, Brownies and Boys Brigade, employment training, music groups, amateur dramatics, ballet, nursery, ex-offenders support, community meetings, worship groups, after school clubs and academic support sessions. | £359,882
<strong>THE GUIDE ASSOCIATION - MIDLANDS</strong> [Charity number: [521781](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521781)]<br>Girlguiding Midlands enables girls and young women to develop their potential and to make a difference in the world. | £340,133
<strong>GIRLGUIDING CAMBRIDGESHIRE WEST</strong> [Charity number: [303348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-303348)]<br>Helps girls & young women to develop emotionally, mentally, physically & spiritually so that they can make a positive contribution to their community & the wider world. | £334,482
<strong>NORTH EAST ENGLAND GUIDE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1000858](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000858)]<br>GIRLGUIDING NORTH EAST ENGLAND IS PART OF GIRLGUIDING UK WHOSE STATEMENT OF PURPOSE IS TO PROMOTE THE EDUCATION OF GIRLS AND YOUNG WOMEN TO HELP THEM DEVELOP EMOTIONALLY, MENTALLY, PHYSICALLY AND SPIRITUALLY SO THAT THEY CAN MAKE A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION TO THEIR COMMUNITY AND THE WIDER WORLD. | £283,250


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PARNWELL COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1042069](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042069)]<br>Maintain the Community Centre for the provision of accommodation for local groups, such as Playgroups, Brownies, Guides, Local residents groups. | £11,294
<strong>17Th B Belfast Guide Unit</strong> [Charity number: [NI104407](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104407)]<br>Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: ? working together in small groups ? encouraging self-government and decision making ? a balanced and varied programme ? caring for the individual ? sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £444
<strong>11Th Bangor Guides</strong> [Charity number: [NI105960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105960)]<br>Organisation’s Activities Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £380
<strong>1St Faughanvale Guide Unit</strong> [Charity number: [NI106541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106541)]<br>Organisation’s Activities Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £1,703
<strong>3rd Burntisland Brownies</strong> [Charity number: [SC032814](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032814)]<br>Advancement of education | £269
<strong>10Th Belfast Guides</strong> [Charity number: [NI104378](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104378)]<br>Organisation’s Activities Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £764
<strong>BITTON GUIDES AND BROWNIES</strong> [Charity number: [302103](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302103)]<br>We are all members and part of Girl Guiding UK. We give opportunities for girls to enjoy a girl lead environment for arts/crafts/homecraft skills/recreation etc. Our building and grounds provide holidays as well as weekly meetings for those in the movement age five upwards. | £22,579
<strong>Girlguiding North Down County</strong> [Charity number: [NI106222](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106222)]<br>Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £5,617
<strong>2Nd Armagh Rainbows</strong> [Charity number: [NI106571](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106571)]<br>Organisation’s Activities Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults | £465
<strong>1st South Queensferry Guide Unit</strong> [Charity number: [SC050795](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050795)]<br>We have adopted the Girlguiding Royal Charter as the Unit's constitution. The aim of guiding is to promote the education of girls and young women to help them develop emotionally, mentally, physically and spiritually so that they can make a positive contribution to their community and the wider world. | 
