# Youth Groups `AS300`

Youth Groups is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Associations](AS.md) categoryand the Youth Groups subcategory.

1,884 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.93% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(youth (group|club)s?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 435 | 0.61%
£10k - £100k | 753 | 1.07%
£100k - £250k | 365 | 1.63%
£250k - £500k | 183 | 1.65%
£500k - £1m | 65 | 0.93%
£1m - £10m | 43 | 0.47%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.18%
Total | 1,848 | 0.95%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,576 | 0.92%
ccni | 226 | 3.23%
oscr | 82 | 0.33%
Total | 1,884 | 0.93%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>THE DUKE OF EDINBURGH'S AWARD</strong> [Charity number: [1072490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072490)]<br>When young people build lifelong belief in themselves, there are no limits to what they can achieve. That's why, at The Duke of Edinburgh's Award (DofE), we support young people of all backgrounds to take on their own challenges and discover talents the never knew they had. DofE is open to ages 14-24, and runs in schools, youth clubs, hospitals, prisons and more, all over the UK. Visit DofE.org. | £24,111,000
<strong>St. Patrick's Archdiocesan Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106767](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106767)]<br>It supports and enhances the physical, spiritual and mental wellbeing of both the Catholic community in the Archdiocese of Armagh numbering approximately 236,000 as well as the wider community. The public celebration of Mass births and funerals enhances the spiritual aspect of lives whilst through its schools and youth clubs its educates and supports children. It provides financial assistance to the disadvantaged and homeless. It imports positive values attitudes and skills. | £16,169,680
<strong>YMCA BRUNEL GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1074660](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074660)]<br>Provide a wide range of activities and support for young people and the community.  With a focus on housing and homelessness and youth work to enabling all to belong, contribute and thrive.  Providing floating support, supported housing, youth clubs and venues for community groups to access. | £10,409,339
<strong>THE FEDERATION OF LONDON YOUTH CLUBS</strong> [Charity number: [303324](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-303324)]<br>Our mission is to support and challenge young people to become the best they can be. Our vision is that all young Londoners grow up healthy, able to navigate a fulfilling career and make a positive contribution in their communities. We support them to develop the confidence, resilience and relationship skills they need through our network of community youth clubs and at our residential centres | £9,287,988
<strong>NORTHAMPTONSHIRE ASSOCIATION OF YOUTH CLUBS</strong> [Charity number: [803431](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803431)]<br>The principal activity of the Charity is the helping and educating young people especially, but not exclusively, through their leisure time activities so as to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities in order that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and members of society and that their conditions of life may be improved. | £8,393,499
<strong>The MacRobert Trust 2019</strong> [Charity number: [SC049745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049745)]<br>a) the giving of relief and assistance to such persons in need, special consideration being given to:  -members of the armed forces community.  -other youth groups.  -those living in or near the Howe O’Cromar. or,  -any other purpose reasonably regarded as analogous to the foregoing charitable purposes and an interest of Lady Rachel MacRobert  b) the making of grants, scholarships, endowments, awards, or prizes or payments for such charitable purposes as the Trustees may, in their sole and uncontrolled discretion, determine that advance charitable purposes within the meaning of the 2005 Act.  c) the advancement and safe keeping of all MacRobert family and MacRobert Trust related heritage in perpetuity at the MacRobert Centre, Douneside House or another location as determined by Trustees. It should be kept in such a manner that that it may be made reasonably available to the public.  d) the advancement of education, arts, science and the environment with a particular focus on activities on the MacRobert Estate, including the development and delivery of training schemes, apprenticeships, work experience opportunities and educational programmes promoting vocational skills and practical training. This includes the provision of buildings, land, plant tools, resources and general equipment required to deliver such training.  e) to protect, and enhance the environment and outdoor spaces, with a particular emphasis on areas in and around the MacRobert Estate.  f) to encourage young people and communities to learn about and access outdoor spaces to enhance knowledge, environmental understanding, improving health and relieving disadvantage.  g) to support the advancement of citizenship and/or community development, through the making of grants or payments and/or including the provision of buildings, land, plant, tools, resources and general equipment required.  h) to help support the local community, by providing housing to those in need via a social housing model, with a particular emphasis on young people, veterans and those who are employed locally.  i) the doing of all such other things as are conducive or incidental to any of the purposes hereof provided that the same be charitable purposes. | £6,123,339
<strong>VALLEY CIDS AND RELATED CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [1123173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123173)]<br>Money is raised through income from charity shops and donations.  This enables the charity to employ youth and children's workers to work in schools, youth clubs and the local community.  The charity works mainly in Derbyshire. | £5,398,917
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST HELEN, BISHOPSGATE</strong> [Charity number: [1131501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131501)]<br>Sunday and midweek services, Bible study groups, Sunday School, youth group, stay-and-play mums and toddlers group, Christianity Explored courses, apprentice training programme, prison ministry | £4,311,460
<strong>International Justice Mission UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC049311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049311)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is established are, in accordance with and in expression of the principles of the Christian faith: 2.1 to promote human rights (as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and subsequent United Nations conventions and declarations) throughout the world by all or any of the following means: 2.1.1 monitoring and investigating abuses of human rights. 2.1 .2 obtaining redress for the victims of human rights abuse. 2.1.3 relieving need among the victims of human rights abuse and providing restorative services to victims. 2.1.4 research into human rights issues. 2.1.5 educating the public about human rights. 2.1.6 providing technical advice and training to governments, and participants in local justice systems (e.g. the police, prosecutors and judiciary) and others on human rights matters. 2.1. 7 contributing to the sound administration of human rights law. 2.1.8 commenting on proposed human rights legislation. 2.1.9 raising awareness of human rights issues. in particular, but without limitation, among churches and other Christian organisations, youth groups, schools, businesses, professional groups, and other community groups. 2.1.10 promoting public support for human rights. 2.1.11 promoting respect for human rights among individuals and corporations. 2.1 .12 international advocacy of human rights. and eliminating infringements of human rights. 2.2 to relieve poverty, hardship, sickness and distress among all people of the world without reference to their personal religious convictions or any other characteristic, in particular, but without limitation, among people who are victims of human rights violations and their families and dependants and those at risk of their human rights being violated and those who for reasons of their poverty are in need of legal representation or other assistance. 2.3 to promote education and training, particularly but without limitation, in relation to issues of access to justice and the rule of law, among churches and Christian organisations, youth groups, schools, businesses, professional groups, and other community groups. and    | £3,701,585


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CARTERS LANE BAPTIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1192790](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192790)]<br>We are a Baptist Church. We provide opportunities for shared worship. We provide opportunities for Youth activities including Youth Club, Girls and Boys Brigade, Toddler Group and Sunday School. A range of community events take place on our premises many of them organised by volunteers from our fellowship | £75,592
<strong>HACKNEY PLAY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1145960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145960)]<br>Play and youth clubs for children at Clapton Park, Homerton Grove and Pearson Street Adventure Playground in Hackney.  Supporting disabled children to enjoy mainstream play services.  Playwork and related training for staff, volunteers, trustees and young people.  Support for Hackney Play Streets. | £331,334
<strong>Colmcille Youth</strong> [Charity number: [NI100673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100673)]<br>The founding principles of Catholic teaching is promoted with children, young people and young adults in the community of St Colmcille's parish, Ballyhackamore - though the work of its sub groups: Children's Liturgy - A Sunday morning group led by volunteers (teenagers and older adults) who impart the Gospel message through stories, role play, games, arts & crafts; Altar Servers Team & Club - training & monthly meetings Sacramental Preparation Classes - for preparation for receiving the sacraments of Reconciliation, First Communion and Confirmation; Junior and Senior Youth groups, Young Adult group - where they meet socially, engage in sporting activities and faith based programmes, have trips & retreat residentials off site; John Paul 11 Award- for 6th form students to undertaking roles to help them become active members of the Church, and the local community; GIFT programme - Growing In Faith Together, for post Confirmation children to support them as they continue on their faith journey; Its Your Move Programme - for Primary 7 children to help them in their transfer to post primary education; Special Young Ministers of the Word team - training is provided for 12 - 16 years old to under take roles in leading prayers in Church on a rota basis; Do This In Memory Of Me Programme - to encourage children who are preparing for First Holy Communion to attend Mass on Sunday with family on a monthly basis; Summer Holiday Bible Week - a leadership project for 14 - 26 year olds leading 4 - 8 year old children; Young Adult monthly faith formation group; Residential Retreats and additional Young Leader training programmes. There is also outreach to the wider community with some projects. The organisation also strives to help integrate the local Catholic Polish, Indian and Filipino children and youth with the parish. | £14,261
<strong>SWADLINCOTE AND DISTRICT YOUTH FOR CHRIST</strong> [Charity number: [1110412](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110412)]<br>Working within local schools and youth groups, providing life skills and support. | £27,840
<strong>HITCHIN YOUTH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [302398](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302398)]<br>We are a registered charity whose aim is to encourage activities for young people up to the age of 26. We can help clubs, associations and educational groups and individuals. We also provide a venue for the use of youth groups. Through careful management of our investments we can provide financial assistance. | £265,429
<strong>MARCHWOOD YOUTH CLUB STEERING GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1196483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196483)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE CLUB IS TO HELP YOUNG PEOPLE, ESPECIALLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES, TO DEVELOP THEIR PHYSICAL, MENTAL AND SPIRITUAL CAPABILITIES THAT THEY MAY GROW TOWARDS FULL MATURITY AS INDIVIDUALS AND MEMBERS OF SOCIETY | 
<strong>BUDE METHODIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1181641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181641)]<br>Bude Methodist Church offers opportunities and facilities for the public to take part in Christian Worship events, such as services, prayer meetings, singing and bible study.  We also offer opportunities for fellowship with each other and to invite community members to social events, such as fundraising via coffee mornings, craft club, youth group, luncheon club and varied social opportunities. | £128,876
<strong>GOING PUBLIC TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1019789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1019789)]<br>Theatre in Education resources for schools and youth groups covering the PSE (personal social education) curriculum.Training people through internships and missional leadership programmes. A Theatre/Singing Company that tours nationally exploring biblical and life issues. | £64,611
<strong>ETHIOPIAN CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP NOTTINGHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1190902](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190902)]<br>The church have the following main activities:-Sunday we have service in the church  from 2:30 pm till 6 pm both Adult and Youth service. Tuesday we have Bible study from 7:30 pm to 9:30 pm. Friday we have a prayer on zoom with all the members. Saturday  we have choir training for the youth group and the adults from 5:30 to 7:00pm and everyone is welcome . | £14,654
<strong>OAKWOOD HIGH YOUTH CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1048525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048525)]<br>Oakwood Youth Club operates in the Greater Manchester Area (predominantly Salford). Providing social and recreational activities for young people with learning disabilities. It is a voluntary club, with extensive experience in providing quality experiences in the arts, sports, outdoor pursuits and general lifeskill opportunities. | 
