# Parents and guardians `BE109`

Parents and guardians is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

10,240 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 5.06% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(parent(s|ing)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,007 | 5.35%
£10k - £100k | 3,794 | 5.55%
£100k - £250k | 950 | 4.56%
£250k - £500k | 379 | 3.80%
£500k - £1m | 215 | 3.47%
£1m - £10m | 167 | 1.96%
Over £10m | 21 | 1.02%
Total | 9,533 | 4.99%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 8,650 | 5.07%
oscr | 861 | 3.46%
ccni | 729 | 10.14%
Total | 10,240 | 5.06%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £280,413,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [SC040009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040009)]<br>The relief of poverty and sickness among those persons generally who are dependent upon or affected by addiction to narcotic drugs and other similar substances or compounds of possible potential or suspected danger to the individual and the community (hereinafter referred to as drugs).  (ii)	The relief of poverty and sickness among parents of children affected by dependence upon or addiction to drugs and among families, any members of which are dependent upon or affected by addiction to drugs.  (iii)	The education and training of the individual and the community at large and advancement of education and training in and research into the danger arising from the habitual or other use of drugs together with publication of literature relating to dependence upon or addiction to drugs and of the results of any such research.  (iv)	The prevention of dependence upon or addiction to drugs, the consultation, treatment and care of those suffering from, and rehabilitation of those relieved from, dependence upon or addiction to drugs PROVIDED ALWAYS that any such treatment as aforesaid shall be carried out only under the supervision of a duly qualified medical practitioner under the National Health Service and wherever there occurs any reference in this Deed to treatment such treatment shall be construed as so limited. | £71,530,000
<strong>Family Fund Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC040810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040810)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are (1) primarily to assist families, parents and others with parental responsibility in the United Kingdom caring for a severely disabled child or person, and (2) the relief of those in need by reason of disability, ill health, financial hardship or other disadvantage by:  (i) providing support by way of financial grants, goods, services and information. (ii) furthering knowledge about disability and its impact on the disabled child or person, their siblings, parents or carers. and (iii)  working with other charitable organisations to deliver financial grants, goods, services and information to those in need by reason of disability, ill health, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £46,388,000
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £42,880,025
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £31,275,010
<strong>The Adolescent And Children's Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039052](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039052)]<br>(1)	to relieve children and young people who by reason of their circumstances have need of foster, adoptive or substitute care by placing children in foster homes or adoptive placements and by training foster or adoptive parents to deal with the needs of children in their care. (2)	otherwise to promote the care and upbringing and establishment in life of children in need thereof including by promotion of their health, development and educational attainment and particularly children in foster or adoptive care. and  (3)	to promote education and research for the public benefit in the subject of children in care, public policy on care and the needs of children entering the care system.  | £26,322,000
<strong>Place2Be</strong> [Charity number: [SC038649](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038649)]<br>The Charity's objects (the 'Objects') are the advancement of education and the preservation and protection of health amongst young persons and adults, without prejudice to the generality of the forgoing, by: P2B MkA 18july2007 a) enabling therapeutic and emotional support ('Emotional Support') to be provided to children in schools based on a practical model backed by research. b) providing Emotional Support to children and adults including teachers and parents. c) providing training in the principles, practices and methods of providing Emotional Support to children and adults and in other allied or ancillary subjects. and d) providing services to facilitate the placing of persons trained in the provision of Emotional Support to children and adults | £25,001,000
<strong>THE LONDON ORPHAN ASYLUM (REED'S SCHOOL)</strong> [Charity number: [312008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312008)]<br>To provide education in Cobham for boys from the ages of 11 - 18, and girls in the Sixth Form.  The objects of the Foundation, as set down in the Act and Constitution, are to advance the education of boys or girls who have lost one or both parents through death, divorce, or other family disaster, and whose home life, as a result, is unsatisfactory, unhappy or abnormal. | £24,948,000
<strong>THOMAS CORAM FOUNDATION FOR CHILDREN (FORMERLY FOUNDLING HOSPITAL)</strong> [Charity number: [312278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312278)]<br>Through services in adoption, supported housing, parents centre, family support and education, Coram works with vulnerable children, young people and their families, transforming their lives through practical help and support. We aim to build self-esteem and well-being, preparing children and young people for a fulfilling adult life. | £21,784,647


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FRIENDS OF GARRICK GREEN</strong> [Charity number: [1139753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139753)]<br>The object of the association is to advance the education of pupils in the school in particular by 1) developing effective relationships between the staff, parents and others associated with the school and 2) engaging in activities or providing facilities or equipment which support the school and advance the education of the pupils. | £13,615
<strong>FRIENDS OF ST JOHN'S CHURCH OF ENGLAND PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1178853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178853)]<br>The object of the CIO is to advance the education of children of St John's Church of England Primary School, Watford in particular by:a) Developing effective relationships between the staff, parents and others associated with the schoolb) Engaging in activities or providing facilities or equipment which support the school and advance the education of the pupils. | £1,751
<strong>STARS Autism Project</strong> [Charity number: [NI101279](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101279)]<br>STARS AUTISM PROJECT operates a Saturday Club during term time, and a 2 week summer scheme for registered children. None of these services are available from the statutory sector currently. Training is provided to parents on the use of Applied Behavioural Analysis to support them in their family life and to promote learning and development of their autistic child. ABA training is not available from the statutory sector. | £1,271
<strong>FULBROOK PARENT AND TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1079068](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079068)]<br>Raises money through school functions to primarily fund extra equipment for the school clubs/enrichment activities as required. | £3,370
<strong>KILLINGHALL PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1099680](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099680)]<br>Killinghall PTA is a volunteer led parent teacher group that raises money for Killinghall C.E. Primary School located in Killinghall, Harrogate, North Yorkshire.The charity typically has a range of fundraising activities in a year including Secret Santa Nights, Disco, Bags2School, The Giving Machine, Ice Cream Sales, Quiz Nights, Bingo Nights, selling used school uniform, Raffles etc. | £4,755
<strong>Sugar and Spice Early Years Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI100733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100733)]<br>We are an Early Years Centre that employ staff and provide early years provision five days a week for on average 26 preschool children of the Drumquin and neighbouring areas in Omagh District Council (ODC). The aim of the group is to enhance the development and education of children under the statutory school age, by encouraging parents/guardians to understand and provide for the needs of their children. We ensure the group offer opportunities for all the children regardless of religion, culture and race or means instigating and adhering to and furthering the aims of early years; Inclusion through diversity and respect for others. Play is the primary vehicle to promote the development of young children. We ensure all children are physically and psychologically healthy, eager to learn and respect those that are different. We provide support, education and development opportunities for families and for all children to reach their full potential. The activities we offer are via a broad and balanced curriculum covering all areas of the child's development: arts; language development; early mathematical experience; personal, social and emotional development; physical development and movement and the world around us. The children experience this in a holistic way through play, stories and songs and we have an excellent outdoor play area. We have outings during the year to places such as the library, animal farm, beach and nature walks. We also have a healthy eating policy and a buffet where the children can pour their own milk and make their own sandwiches. The children also graduate at the end of term and we have transition visits for the local Primary Schools. Our activities are focused very much around the needs of the children and parents; and staff has a positive attitude towards each child's development. Often playgroup is the children's first interaction with others and an introduction to routine so we see the Playgroup as an important part of the community. | £75,519
<strong>Woodside Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [SC003699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003699)]<br>To promote the aim of the Scottish Pre-school Play Association which is to advance the education to pre-school children so that they may take a constructive place in the community, and also the education of their parents and other adults, children and teenagers, and in the furtherance of that aim, (a) To provide safe and satisfying group play in which parents take part when appropriate. (b) To encourage other charitable activities through which parents may help the children. | £7,098
<strong>Belfast Central Mission</strong> [Charity number: [NI101271](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101271)]<br>BCM, an agency of the Methodist Church, was established in 1889 as a Christian response to social problems inherent in inner city Belfast. Located in the very heart of the city, its motivation was then, as now, to meet the needs of the whole person, spiritual, emotional, social and physical, regardless of class, creed or ethnicity. Today BCM seeks to support those most in need across Northern Ireland through a diverse range of social care projects and a community outreach programme which is enhanced by a dedicated team of volunteers. Activities include: • Residential care and Housing Support for older people • Community based advice and support, including Befriending, Lunch Club and short breaks for older people • Supported Housing accommodation for young people • Housing Support projects for young people • Parent Support projects • Therapeutic Counselling for young care leavers • Puddleducks Day Nursery • Christmas Support Programme - food and toys for people and families in need The congregation of the charity seeks to live through word and deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ, being a practical expression of the Christian faith through its support for the charity’s fundraising, befriending older people and encouraging the charity’s staff in all they do. Activities include: • Sunday services of worship open to the public • A mid-week early morning Holy Communion service • A ‘Prayer Diary’ which members of the public are encouraged to write in and members of the congregation pray for • Supporting, both financially and as volunteers, Belfast Street Pastors, a ministry of caring, listening and provision of help to the night-time economy • Supporting the establishment of a city centre chaplaincy • Supporting a Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and Spirituality project in North Belfast • Providing pastoral care to members of the congregation and the general public particularly during times of need | £7,419,506
<strong>THE LEIGH EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [701462](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701462)]<br>Makes grants of money for education or training or both to those under 25 years old who are resident or whose parents are resident in Stoneleigh, Ashow, Burton Green or Leek Wootton in Warwickshire | £241,058
<strong>WILMINGTON GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOR BOYS PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1003650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1003650)]<br>Fundraising for Wilmington Grammar School for Boys  Parent Teachers Association | £21,859
