# Migrants `BE107`

Migrants is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

589 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.29% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((im)?migrants?|(im)?migration)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 157 | 0.21%
£10k - £100k | 150 | 0.22%
£100k - £250k | 74 | 0.36%
£250k - £500k | 60 | 0.61%
£500k - £1m | 43 | 0.70%
£1m - £10m | 37 | 0.44%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.15%
Total | 524 | 0.27%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 485 | 0.28%
oscr | 65 | 0.26%
ccni | 39 | 0.54%
Total | 589 | 0.29%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Migrant Help</strong> [Charity number: [1088631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088631)]<br>1 The relief of refugees and their families and dependants who are in conditions of need,hardship or distress2 to inform, advise and assist foreigners and Commonwealth citizens who are in difficulty or distress during their stay in the UK or in connection with their arrival or departure therefrom3 to promote the rights of refugees through the provision of advocacy and information. | £45,734,000
<strong>Migrant Help</strong> [Charity number: [SC041022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041022)]<br>2.1 The objects for which the Company is established ('the Objects') are:  2.1.1 The relief of sickness and financial hardship of Beneficiaries including: (a) information and advice on counselling, health, legal and welfare services and assistance. (b) advice on financial maintenance which may include the direct provision of financial assistance, goods and services. (c) advice on and provision of residential accommodation. (d) such other items or services as the Trustees in their discretion choose to provide.  2.1.2 To advance the education and training of Beneficiaries and their dependants in need thereof so as to advance them in life and assist them to adapt within a new community.  2.1.3 To promote for the public benefit the sound administration of the law by providing advocacy services to Beneficiaries and their dependants.  2.1.4 To advance the education of the public in general about the issues relating to human migration.  2.2 In this Article 2, 'Beneficiaries' are defined as individuals, being:  2.2.1 foreign nationals. or  2.2.2 victims of human trafficking or potential victims of human trafficking (regardless of their nationality).   who are in difficulty on their arrival, stay or residence in or departure from the UK. | £45,734,000
<strong>UCLU</strong> [Charity number: [1142404](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142404)]<br>Provides UCL students with advice on immigration,housing,finance,employment,academic appeals etc. Provides representation between Students,UCL and other bodies.Co-ordinates Student Academic Representatives to encourage student feedback/course development.Promotes student personal development by the provision of social,cultural,volunteering, sporting/recreational activities,discussion/debate fora | £13,923,409
<strong>Diagrama Foundation-Psychosocial Intervention</strong> [Charity number: [SC044074](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044074)]<br>3.1 The objects of the Charity (the 'Objects') are  (a) to promote the health (mental, psychological and physical), spiritual and educational development of all children and other young people. and to promote the moral, vocational and social development of children and young people who are in need by reason of social difficulty or disadvantage, in order to integrate them into their communities, provide opportunities for them to develop their full capacities and enable them to become full members of society so that their conditions of life may be improved, (b) to promote and provide for the care, resettlement, education, training and rehabilitation of prisoners, ex prisoners, offenders, ex offenders and those at risk of offending and their families and dependents, (c) to promote and provide for the care, resettlement, education, training, rehabilitation and integration into society of persons affected by alcohol, drug and other addictions,  (d) to promote and provide for the care, resettlement, education, training, rehabilitation and Integration into society of refugees, asylum seekers and other Immigrants, their families and dependents, (e) to promote, carry out and publish the useful results of research into  (1) social conditions affecting children and other young people, prisoners, ex prisoners, offenders, ex offenders, those at risk of offending, persons affected by alcohol, drug and other addictions, refugees, asylum seekers and other immigrants and the families and dependents of such persons, and  (2) the mental, psychological, spiritual, moral, social and physical needs of children and other young people, prisoners, ex prisoners, offenders, ex offenders, those at risk of offending, persons affected by alcohol, drug and other addictions, refugees, asylum seekers and other Immigrants and the families and dependents of such persons and to promote the education of the public and other organisations in relation to the same. | £7,798,892
<strong>STAFFORDSHIRE NORTH AND STOKE-ON-TRENT CITIZENS ADVICE BUREAUX</strong> [Charity number: [1001204](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001204)]<br>Provision of advice, information and support to people resident in the area of benefit on their legal rights, to help them deal with legal financial and other problems. Our main areas of work concern problems with debt, welfare benefits, housing rights, immigration and asylum issues, and employment rights. We also seek to influence the development of policies and services. | £4,925,979
<strong>COMMUNITY ADVICE AND LAW SERVICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1087214](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087214)]<br>Community Advice and Law Service provides an independent advice service in social welfare law including debt, housing, welfare benefits and immigration (which is a charged for service), we also provide financial capability support through the Moneywise Living project, energy advice and generalist advice at Foodbanks. | £4,073,216
<strong>THE REFUGEE AND MIGRANT CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1104779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104779)]<br>RMC provides free, impartial & confidential advice to all asylum seekers, refugees and migrants living in the Black Country and Birmingham.  Our broad approach covers many issues related to reception, settlement, integration and voluntary return.We will help anyone, regardless of country of origin, ethnicity, legal status, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability. | £3,800,003
<strong>EAST LONDON ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TRAINING</strong> [Charity number: [299186](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299186)]<br>Training, Education and Employment Support for disadvantaged adults and young people, in particular the long-term unemployed, refugee and migrant women, and young people not in employment, education or training. Services include vocational training, English language and basic skills, advice and guidance, welfare support and volunteering and work experience programmes. | £3,601,458
<strong>WESTCOUNTRY RIVERS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1135007](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135007)]<br>Farm visits and educate farmers to adopt sustainable practices; conferences and work with institutions to educate the public about resource protection issues; catchment restoration to restore rivers and improve land management; research based on habitat protection and species conservation including fish stocks and migration; liaise with policy makers to benefit the public through conservation. | £3,413,397
<strong>HANDMAIDS OF THE SACRED HEART OF JESUS (REGENTS PARK, LONDON, AND CHRISTCHURCH, HANTS )</strong> [Charity number: [221319](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221319)]<br>Members of the congregation are involved in community and parish based programmes in Great Britain. These include counselling, visiting the elderly, sick and dying, working with the homeless, helping immigrants to adapt to their new environment and working with young adults. The charity also owns and operates St Christina's Preparatory School which educates children between the ages of 3 and 11. | £3,312,325


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LEEDS SUDANESE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1095816](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095816)]<br>Monthly GET TOGETHER and SEMINARSIT and ESOL classesDrop-in sessions where we provide advice, information and sign posting on housing, benefits and immigration mattersSewing ClassYouth GroupMental Health ProjectPrevention ProjectChild care facilities for project attendees | £680
<strong>Aughnacloy Development Association Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI102482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102482)]<br>Our activities include; Managing the McCreedy Mill Centre, this provides day care facilities for disabled adults from the Clogher Valley area as well as short term residential accommodation and shop units. Organising and holding local fundraising events whereby the proceeds are used in the development of the town and district of Aughnacloy. Fundraising events include Aughnacloy 5 Miler Fun, Aughnacloy Summer Festival and Cycle Sportive. The Christmas Craft Fair & Santa’s Grotto provided a facility for local business to advertise and sell their goods at stalls set up in the Aughnacloy Youth Hall. ADA also held a Summer Sizzler cross border cross community event for children which was funded by Co-Operation Ireland. The ADA also provides a community office for Citizens Advice Bureau (Outreach work), The Youth Justice Agency and South West College. The ADA provides help, advice and information to residents and visitors alike from our office at the McCreedy Mill Centre. The McCreedy Mill Centre is the only neutral venue within the town boundary and is totally inclusive. ADA has formed new local voluntary groups including; • The International Support Group (since 2007) to help the migrant working population and their families settle and integrate into the community. The group focus on employment, housing, family, education and health issues. • Aughnacloy Neighbourhood Watch covering local crime prevention and safety issues. • Aughnacloy Spring Chicken Club for those aged 60+ • Aughnacloy Truagh Historical Society which studies local history and culture • Aughnacloy Women of Enterprise which is the latest organisation developed and run by ADA. It is designed to help young women, including young mothers start up a business to suit their family needs and improve their household income. ADA also provides a facility for local business and club organisations to advertise on the Aughnacloy Community Pages for free. | £43,288
<strong>WASH WADER RESEARCH GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1196663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196663)]<br>Scientific monitoring of wild bird populations that use The Wash estuary, with the aim of improving our understanding of the habitats, food supply and migration patterns. We train people in the UK and elsewhere in the safe catching and monitoring of waders, we manufacture and supply specialist equipment and we educate the public in our activities. | £58,842
<strong>Shelter, Campaign for Homeless People (Northern Ireland) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100767](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100767)]<br>We publish what we do in an annual report. We help older people make their home suitable for independent living by assisting with documentation and professional help. We mediate with contractors in disputes. This prevents the risk of homelessness for 4-500 households per year currently. We measure satisfaction rates for our service and we gather data to support our campaigning. We support young homeless people16-25 to prepare for independent living, through employment or training, reducing their risk of poverty and cyclical homelessness. Currently we aid 25 young people per year, but that programme is expanding. We campaign to Stormont Ministers, Assembly Committees, Departments and other statutory bodies regarding homelessness and adequate levels of supply. We prepare briefings to MLAs, correspond, respond to strategy, policy or legislative proposals, release press statements and host seminars and conferences to address poor housing and homelessness. We educate and inform the general public about homelessness and poor housing, temporary accommodation and the support needed for vulnerable households who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. We also comment on the level of housing need and supply. We do presentations on these issues by invitation or by arrangement with schools or other groups of people or individuals. We also promote the issues associated with homelessness through the media, the internet and social media. We report on the pathways into homelessness and their impact; poor and substandard housing; housing need and supply; and related services factors. We use this information to support our campaigns and to identify innovative approaches and long term solutions to address homelessness or to prevent homelessness; and address unmet needs. We work directly and with others for those households excluded from their housing rights by any government policy or practice which places them at risk of homelessness or renders them homeless e.g. migrant people | £525,266
<strong>BEDFORDSHIRE AFRICAN COMMUNITY CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1097995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097995)]<br>To Provide advice, advocacy and information on statutory/public and voluntary sector services to Africans and other minority groups to address the mental health and well-being issues faced by Africans including refugees, asylum seekers & Migrants in Luton & Beds areas, to provide a signposting support service to organisations that provide advice on welfare, benefits, housing and employment. | 
<strong>ALL NATIONS MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1106013](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1106013)]<br>Services-Befriending, counselling, help to homeless/vulnerable, immigration advice, translation/interpreting services to ASR residing in Plymouth area, social/inter cultural activities, football and African dance, drumming/music and Religious activities | £67,291
<strong>SPURN BIRD OBSERVATORY TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1141408](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141408)]<br>The long term monitoring of bird populations, their distribution and migration. The conservation of wildlife and the encouragement of the breeding of wild birds, animals and insects on and around the Spurn Peninsula in East Yorkshire. The provision of hostel type accommodation for visiting nautralists. | £186,041
<strong>WARM HUT UK</strong> [Charity number: [1205109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205109)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE: -TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF REFUGEES, ASYLUM SEEKERS AND MIGRANTS AND THEIR DEPENDANTS LIVING (TEMPORARILY OR PERMANENTLY) IN THE UNITED KINGDOM BY:RELIEVING THEIR NEEDS AND HELPING THEM ADAPT TO THEIR COMMUNITY, IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING A DROP-IN SERVICE PROVIDING ADVICE, ADVOCACY, PRACTICAL ASSISTANCE AND SIGNPOSTING/LIAISING WITH OTHER ORGANISATIONS THAT CAN ACHIEVE THESE AIMS.-TO PROVIDE OR ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NEED OF SUCH FACILITIES BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCES, WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE.-FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSES DEEMED CHARITABLE BY THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL FROM TIME TO TIME DETERMINE.-FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO RELIEVE POVERTY IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE CONGO, THE REPUBLIC OF CONGO AND THE IVORY COAST. - FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSES DEEMED CHARITABLE BY THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL FROM TIME TO TIME DETERMINE. | 
<strong>Lisburn Enterprise Organisation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101192)]<br>Enterprise Awareness A key feature of our work is the promotion of an enterprise culture and awareness raising activities to highlight self-employment and entrepreneurship as positive and rewarding career choices. • Design and delivery of student entrepreneurship & employability workshops • Exhibiting at careers exhibitions and Job Fairs • Outreach work in the local college • Sponsorship of student & business awards • Working with prisoners in HMP Maghaberry • Facilitating access to support services by migrant workers Business Start Up • Exploring Enterprise – accredited training & mentoring programme for the long term unemployed and economically inactive to support their re-engagement with the labour market • INI Regional Start Initiative - providing individuals who want to start a new business with advice and the capability to produce their own business plan • COMET Boot Camp - group learning and one-to-one implementation support for young entrepreneurs aged between 16-35 years • Graduate into Business Programme – a package of mentoring and technical support to aspiring and existing graduate entrepreneurs Business Development • Tradelinks Programme - supports businesses to grow their customer base beyond NI and build on exports to the Republic of Ireland • Promotion of the Invest in Health, Profit in Business campaign encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in the health of their employees • Collaboration with other business support organisations to promote access by local business owners to a range of initiatives so as they get the necessary support to grow their business. Business Support • Assist clients in applying for grants and loans. • Provision of light industrial/office type business accommodation on favourable terms including 30 day licences, all-inclusive licence fee, onsite business advice and other facilities. • Provision of meeting rooms & conference facilities on an hourly basis for flexible use by local businesses • Virtual office services | £644,141
<strong>Bolton Community Advice</strong> [Charity number: [1189587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189587)]<br>Bolton Advice Centre is a community-based charity which provides guidance, help, information or advice on a wide range of issues, including;Benefits,Disability,Housing issues,Homelessness,Advocacy and advice for people with sensory impairment or loss,Help for released offenders,Debt,Immigration issues,Poverty, | £210,050
