# LGBTQ+ `BE105`

LGBTQ+ is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

313 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(lgbt\+?q?i?|lesbian|gay|bi-?sexual|transgender(ed)?|queer)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 64 | 0.09%
£10k - £100k | 99 | 0.14%
£100k - £250k | 39 | 0.18%
£250k - £500k | 22 | 0.20%
£500k - £1m | 26 | 0.39%
£1m - £10m | 18 | 0.20%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 268 | 0.14%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 258 | 0.15%
oscr | 44 | 0.18%
ccni | 11 | 0.15%
Total | 313 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>STONEWALL EQUALITY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1101255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1101255)]<br>Promoting equality and human rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans people. | £6,915,904
<strong>LESBIAN, GAY AND BISEXUAL ANTI - VIOLENCE AND POLICING GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1077384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077384)]<br>Galop is the UK's leading lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans* (LGBT) anti-violence and abuse charity. We make life safe, just and fair for LGBT people. We give advice and support to people who have experienced biphobia, homophobia, transphobia, sexual violence and domestic abuse, and we work to improve the way the our communities can get help. | £4,154,403
<strong>LGBT FOUNDATION LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1070904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070904)]<br>LGBT Foundation is one of the UK's leading lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans (LGBT) community charities, believeing in a fair and equal society where all lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans people can achieve their full potential. The LGBT Foundation provides health, well being and other services directly to LGBT people and supports a wide range of organisations which work with LGBT people. | £3,678,556
<strong>MANCHESTER PRIDE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1117848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117848)]<br>Promote equality and diversity for the public benefit and in particular the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, including in particular but not exclusively by raising the awareness of the public with regard to all aspects of discrimination in society and issues and difficulties affecting the lives of lesbian, gay and bisexual and transgender people. | £2,715,806
<strong>THE ALBERT KENNEDY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1093815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093815)]<br>We are the national LGBTQ youth homelessness charity; focused on prevention and early action we provide emergency accommodation and routes to safe homes, practical advice and mentoring, training, advocacy and support to young people who are homeless, at risk of homelessness or living in a hostile environment after coming out to their parents, care givers and peers. | £2,487,921
<strong>AGE UK CAMDEN</strong> [Charity number: [293446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293446)]<br>Age UK Camden is the legal name. The charity: (a) Provides services; (b) Works in partnerships; (c) Campaigns with/for older people; (d) Innovates and undertakes research. Current services include: Day Services; Information/Advice; befriending; social prescribing; counselling; shopping;  computer training;  support for older LGBT people. | £2,473,088
<strong>The Albert Kennedy Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC050032](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050032)]<br>The charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to the following  1.  to relieve lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans young persons in conditions of need, hardship or distress by advancing education and training and by providing or assisting in the provision of accommodation, information, advocacy advice, counselling and other forms of assistance for  such young persons who have a need thereof. | £2,374,592
<strong>LGBT Youth Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC024047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024047)]<br>5.1 [1] To advance the learning, development, and to empower of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) young people aged 13–25 by providing them with knowledge, skills, and support to overcome barriers, explore their potential, and achieve success. [2] To raise awareness and promote education among the their families, friends, and peers and the general public in Scotland by delivering innovative, inclusive, and accessible learning opportunities that promote personal development, resilience, and skills for life. [3] To advance citizenship and community development by empowering LGBT young people to become active contributors to their communities through leadership, volunteering, and advocacy opportunities. [4] To promote equality and diversity and advance human rights by working to eliminate discrimination and by creating inclusive environments where LGBT young people feel safe, valued, and able to thrive. | £2,177,689
<strong>THE WARREN OF HULL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [700458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700458)]<br>Young peoples resource centre offering informal education, accredited and non-accredited courses, childcare, counselling, cafe, health activities, womens work, work with LGBT young people, music, art, recording studios and sports.  All of these activities are provided with in a philosophy of encouraging young people to take control over their own lives). | £1,647,262
<strong>KALEIDOSCOPE DIVERSITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146274](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146274)]<br>The Kaleidoscope Trust works to advance the human rights of LGBT people in countries where they lack their equal rights, particularly in the Commonwealth. We do this by listening, amplifying and communicating their voices to a wider audience to persuade public and political opinion and work as a catalyst for meaningful change to end discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. | £1,588,366


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>AFFIRM: BAPTISTS TOGETHER FOR LGBT+ INCLUSION</strong> [Charity number: [1183976](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183976)]<br>Providing pastoral support to people identifying as LGBT plus within Baptist churches in Great Britain; engaging in constructive discussions within the churches towards acceptance of loving same-sex relationships; promoting discussion, study and sharing people's stories and providing theological resources and networking opportunities. | £1,546
<strong>LGBT Youth Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC024047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024047)]<br>5.1 [1] To advance the learning, development, and to empower of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) young people aged 13–25 by providing them with knowledge, skills, and support to overcome barriers, explore their potential, and achieve success. [2] To raise awareness and promote education among the their families, friends, and peers and the general public in Scotland by delivering innovative, inclusive, and accessible learning opportunities that promote personal development, resilience, and skills for life. [3] To advance citizenship and community development by empowering LGBT young people to become active contributors to their communities through leadership, volunteering, and advocacy opportunities. [4] To promote equality and diversity and advance human rights by working to eliminate discrimination and by creating inclusive environments where LGBT young people feel safe, valued, and able to thrive. | £2,177,689
<strong>Fighting With Pride</strong> [Charity number: [SC053933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053933)]<br>1. To relieve need, hardship or distress among lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependents within the united kingdom by: (a) promoting and supporting schemes and other initiatives including rehabilitation, retraining and employment of those who lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. (b) seeking acknowledgement and return where appropriate of medals and other awards removed when they lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. © seeking acknowledgement and remedy by whatever means is judged appropriate of damaged or impaired pension rights, payments and other benefits resulting from when they lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. promoting equality, diversity and inclusivity and the elimination of discrimination amongst serving and former members of the armed forces of the crown. the promotion of the efficiency of the armed forces of the crown by encouraging esprit de corps through bringing together lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants. to advance public education regarding lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants with regards to their history, health and physical or mental wellbeing and military service including through public advocacy and the dissemination of research into these topics and through integration and promotion of arts projects. to promote and protect the good physical and mental health of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants through: (a) direct liaison with the government and its agencies and by the provision of information, advocacy and discussion. and (b) direct liaison with veterans and other charities and professional organisations through cooperative work, the provision of information, advocacy and discussion, so that their needs and past injustices can be better understood and addressed. to promote social inclusion for the public benefit amongst lgbt+ veterans who were socially excluded when they lost their careers and livelihoods in the past while serving in the armed forces on account of their sexuality, by the provision of service referrals, of support, advocacy and social activities so that they have the opportunity to reintegrate within the broader military family. (for the purpose of this clause, 'socially excluded' means lgbt+ veterans who lost or gave up their careers on account of their sexuality or gender identity while serving in the armed forces and who subsequently faced being ostracised when 'outed' to family, friends and colleagues, who found it difficult to find new employment or who developed mental health difficulties including poor self-esteem and confidence, depression and/or ptsd as a consequence). | 
<strong>OPENING DOORS LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1167919](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167919)]<br>Opening Doors London aims to specifically meet the needs of the older LGBT plus (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Trans) community and is aimed at people who identify as LGBT plus and are over the age of 50. We have members from across London and beyond. | £616,749
<strong>SafeDeposits Scotland Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043533)]<br>The SCIO’s purposes are: 4.1 The relief of those in need by supporting other charities or organisations in overcoming barriers for individuals to access and sustain good quality, decent, safe, compliant and energy efficient housing in the private rented sector.. 4.2 The relief of those in need through promoting, undertaking and supporting research into factors that contribute to hardship and disadvantage in the private rented sector and the most appropriate ways to mitigate these and to publish the useful results. For the purpose of the above objects the relief of those in need means those who are in need as a result of one or more of the following factors: unemployment. financial hardship. youth or old age. ill health (physical or mental). substance abuse or dependency including alcohol and drugs. discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, disability, ethnic origin, religion, belief, creed or sexual orientation or being transgender. poor educational or skills attainment. people who are homeless or potentially at risk of homelessness. crime – either as a victim of crime or as an offender rehabilitating into society. 4.3 To advance education about housing rights and obligations in general, and in particular about (a) Best practice in the management of private rented housing, (b) Legal rights and obligations which are of particular relevance to those who are involved in the provision or management of private rented housing or who hold tenancies within the private rented housing sector and (c) Use of alternative dispute resolution processes for the more efficient and effective resolution of disputes between landlords and tenants (d) To advance conflict resolution through promoting the use of alternative dispute resolution processes for the more efficient resolution of disputes between landlords and tenants within the private rented housing sector. | £300,036
<strong>OUTDOORLADS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1133121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133121)]<br>EACH MONTH WE RUN A WIDE RANGE OF ACTIVITIES IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY TO THE, GAY, BISEXUAL, TRANSSEXUAL AND TRANSGENDER COMMUNITIES. FROM CAMPING, HOSTELLING, HILLWALKING AND INDOOR CLIMBING, TO THE MORE EXTREME ACTIVITIES LIKE GORGE SCRAMBLING, ICE CLIMBING, TECHNICAL MOUNTAIN BIKING AND MANY MORE. | £353,481
<strong>NORTH MIDLANDS LGBT OLDER PEOPLES GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1186844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186844)]<br>The Group provides a local network that encourages and enables LGBT people to participate more effectively with the wider community; and works  to increase, and co-ordinate opportunities for LGBT people to engage with service providers. We are a self-help group that offers mutual peer support in regular meetings and through programmes of social, cultural & creative activities. | £41,125
<strong>LEEDS LGBTQ+ COMMUNITY CONSORTIUM</strong> [Charity number: [1199168](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199168)]<br>To promote social inclusion for the public benefit of members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and non-binary communities who are socially excluded by reason of the sexual orientation or gender re-assignment, in particular but not limited to those who are older, unwell or disabled by providing activities to help reduce their isolation, and improve their health. | £25,088
<strong>LGBT CHARITY UK</strong> [Charity number: [1186736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186736)]<br>We are a non-profit charity, We provide support to LGBT projects.  We also work with other organisations that wish to challenge anti-gay laws with in and outside the United Kingdom. We will leave our doors open to offer advice, support and information to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender within and outside our community.also help homeless and give out food. | 
<strong>QUEERCIRCLE</strong> [Charity number: [1194564](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194564)]<br>Queercircle is an LGBTQ led charity working at the intersection of arts, culture and social action. Our community focused programme of exhibition commissions, participatory residencies and learning and participation activities are delivered to strengthen links between arts, culture, health and wellbeing. | £431,695
