# Older people `BE108`

Older people is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](/data/ukcat/BE) category.

8,024 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.98% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(old(er)? (persons?|people|age)|elderly|seniors|the aged|over [5-9]0s?|senior citizens?|pensioners?|aging)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,995 | 3.61%
£10k - £100k | 2,598 | 4.00%
£100k - £250k | 1,009 | 5.21%
£250k - £500k | 465 | 5.13%
£1m - £10m | 373 | 4.69%
£500k - £1m | 294 | 5.10%
Over £10m | 60 | 3.24%
Total | 7,794 | 4.06%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 6,870 | 4.07%
oscr | 692 | 2.72%
ccni | 462 | 6.50%
Total | 8,024 | 3.98%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £351,700,000
<strong>METHODIST HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1083995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083995)]<br>Methodist Homes is a charity providing care, accommodation and support services for older people throughout Britain.  We are one of the largest charitable care providers in the sector and amongst the largest charities in Britain, providing services to 15,000 older people for nearly 70 years. | £251,089,000
<strong>Salvation Army Social Work Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037691)]<br>' in promoting the charitable work of the Salvation Army in such one or more of the following ways as the General for the time being of the Salvation Army shall think fit namely : (1) relief of poverty sickness suffering distress incapacity or old age. (2) advancement of education. (3) training in Christian and moral principles. and (4) assistance of those in need of protection' | £201,362,000
<strong>THE ERIC WRIGHT CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1002966](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002966)]<br>The Trust is a general purpose charity with a particular interest in supporting young people and the elderly in the North West of England | £176,787,000
<strong>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE</strong> [Charity number: [519996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519996)]<br>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE WORK ACROSS THE WHOLE OF THE CARE SPECTRUM DELIVERING DIVERSE SUPPORT AND CARE SERVICES ACROSS ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND.  THE CHARITY PROVIDES SUPPORTED LIVING FOR PEOPLE WITH LEARNING OR PHYSICAL DIFFICULTIES AND/OR MENTAL HEALTH CONCERNS AS WELL AS RESIDENTIAL AND NURSING CARE FOR OLDER PEOPLE INCLUDING DEMENTIA CARE USING ITS EACHSTEP MODEL OF CARE. | £143,146,000
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £142,814,877
<strong>AGE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1128267](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128267)]<br>Age UK aims to create a world where older people can live their lives free from poverty, isolation and neglect.  It raises awareness of issues affecting older people in the UK and overseas, researches and campaigns for changes in policy and practice, and offers practical support to disadvantaged older people.  It is funded by individuals, companies and trusts. | £125,972,000
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £112,754,000
<strong>Radius Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102575)]<br>Radius Housing Association provides housing, care and support to over 33,000 homes throughout Northern Ireland. Radius was established in 2017 following the merger of Helm and Fold housing associations and draws on over 80 years of combined experience to make a positive impact on housing and communities into the future. Radius is now one of the leading housing associations in Northern Ireland. Radius has also developed a range of services that allow us to offer our clients the right level of support in their own home or in our accommodation:- # Housing for Older People with Dementia and the Frail Elderly # Supported Housing # Day Care visits # Personal Pendant Alarms # Telemonitoring service (monitoring patient’s vital signs in their home) # Assistance for people with a disability to make home adaptations Radius's services are delivered in partnership with the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, the Department for Communities and the Health and Social Care Trusts. | £94,170,798
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £82,706,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE HERD LAWSON AND MURIEL LAWSON CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1113220](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113220)]<br>To distribute capital and income as the Trustees may determine:As to one half for (a) The Christian Workers Relief Fund (b) for the benefit of needy elderly people primarily those who are members of Evangelical or Christian Brethren ChurchesAs to one half for (a) WWF - UK (b) the British Red Cross Society | £250,838
<strong>CHARITY OF JANE HARDCASTLE</strong> [Charity number: [250584](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250584)]<br>Annual gifts at Christmas to elderly members and adherents of pellon baptist church, Halifax. | £126
<strong>DISS & DISTRICT DAY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [280572](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280572)]<br>TO PROMOTE THE WELFARE OF THE AGED AND AND THOSE WITH A DISABILITY IN ANY MANNER WHICH NOW IS, OR HEREAFTER MAY BE DEEMED, TO BE CHARITABLE BY PROVIDING A DAY CENTRE TO GIVE FACILITIES FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE-TIME OCCUPATION FOR THOSE IN NEED OF SUCH SERVICES AND WHERE APPROPRIATE TO PROVIDE OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY FOR SUCH PERSONS. | £8,777
<strong>ANANNA - MANCHESTER BANGLADESHI WOMEN'S ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1195118](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195118)]<br>TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE IN PARTICULAR (BUT WITHOUT LIMITATION) BANGLADESHI GIRLS AND WOMEN RESIDING IN MANCHESTER , FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY THROUGH: - EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE  - SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND EVENTS INVOLVING THE COMMUNITY DIRECTED TO PROMOTING SOCIAL INCLUSION; - PROVIDING WORKSHOPS/CLASSES, ADVICE AND GENERAL SUPPORT’.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY).” | 
<strong>FENHAM ASSOCIATION OF RESIDENTS</strong> [Charity number: [700203](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700203)]<br>FENHAM ASSOCIATION OF RESIDENTS is a charity that supports disadvantaged children, young people, families and older people. We are currently working with disabled people and including residents from a diverse range of nationalities. We operate from a community centre in the heart of our neighbourhood and operates as a community hub. | £195,505
<strong>THE CHARITY OF THE REVD GEORGE WALLS, D D</strong> [Charity number: [243406](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-243406)]<br>MAKES GRANTS TO ELDERLY PEOPLE | 
<strong>WOMEN AT THE WELL OF LIVING WATERS</strong> [Charity number: [1197562](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197562)]<br>The prevention or relief of Poverty,Mainly Amongst women and girls by providing or assisting in the provision of Education, training, healthcare projects and all the necessary support designed to enable individuals to generate a sustainable income and be self sufficientFor the Public Benefit promote the Education of the young and the elderly in such ways as the charity trustees think fit. | 
<strong>Friends Of Armagh Cathedral</strong> [Charity number: [NI100129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100129)]<br>The Friends, through its Management Committee, has supported the Cathedral and Choir as follows:- Commissioned a stained glass window to celebrate the Millennium; Financed repairs to the bells; Significantly financed repairs and renovation to the Music room used by the Cathedral Choir for choir practices; Provided rails at the steps of the Altar to assist the elderly and infirm when receiving Communion, as required under Health & Safety; The provision and the running of the Cathedral Shop, the profits of which contribute to the work of the Friends; Assisted with the overall cost of extensive renovation to the Cathedral grounds ; The Friends, through its Management Committee, has Support the Cathedral and Choir as follows:- Commissioned a stained glass window to celebrate the Millennium, Financed repairs to the bells; Significantly financed repairs and renovation to the Music room used by the Cathedral Choir for choir practices; Provided rails at the steps of the Altar to assist the elderly when receiving Communion; as required under Health & Safety. The provision and the running of the Cathedral Shop, the profits of which contribute to the work we do; Assisted with the overall cost of extensive renovation to the Cathedral grounds several years ago; Financed the purchase of new altar cloth, pulpit and lectern hangings to be used at special events in the life of the Cathedral; Refurbished the choir room, Support summer schools for choir members, Recently the Friends agreed to pay for two new oak candlesticks for the Altar. The Friends have provided a guide book, tourist information literature, and a children’s guide to the Cathedral. The above list demonstrates the wide range of support the Friends give the Cathedral. | £4,661
<strong>North West Fellowship Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI105909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105909)]<br>We hold Christian meetings in church buildings and homes. We preach and teach the Bible. We encourage and guide people to become Christians and live by the Bible. We praise and worship God together. We share communion around the Lords table. We pray for one another and the needs of others. We visit the sick and elderly and pray for God to heal, bless and comfort them. We explain and demonstrate the love that God has for people by creating a family atmosphere in our meetings. We train and promote people with gifts in speaking, singing and music. We provide fellowship by showing hospitality and sharing meals together. We help and support those with various needs. We support the local food bank by giving food on a regular basis. We train and equip those who believe they are called to the ministry. We support those who choose to go Bible College for further training. We plant new churches for people in other geographical areas with people who are sufficiently trained to lead the meetings and continue to support them. We invite speakers from other church groups. We are in association with a larger church in Ireland and draw from their experiences, wisdom and strength. We gather funds from tithing, gifts and by other methods to enable us to do all the things we do. | £35,336
<strong>WESTON COYNEY AND CAVERSWALL COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1045402](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1045402)]<br>SEQUENCE DANCING, SOCIAL DANCING, GARDENING CLUB, SENIOR CITIZEN CLUB,          FLOWER CLUB, Allotments, young persons dancing, indoor bowls | £19,841
