# Families `BE103`

Families is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

12,471 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 6.14% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(family|families)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,378 | 4.75%
£10k - £100k | 3,903 | 5.56%
£100k - £250k | 1,690 | 7.58%
£250k - £500k | 956 | 8.77%
£500k - £1m | 612 | 8.91%
£1m - £10m | 824 | 9.05%
Over £10m | 208 | 9.32%
Total | 11,571 | 6.00%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 10,164 | 5.94%
oscr | 1,478 | 5.96%
ccni | 829 | 11.51%
Total | 12,471 | 6.14%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £345,552,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £340,251,582
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>THE ORMISTON TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1164358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164358)]<br>Ormiston Trust supports children and their families by way of grants to Ormiston organisations and the sponsorship of Multi Academy Trusts. Four core values underpin our work: Nurture; Empower; Innovate; and Impact. | £338,987,000
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £335,019,000
<strong>MACMILLAN CANCER SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [261017](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261017)]<br>Macmillan Cancer Support exists to help improve the lives of people affected by cancer - those with cancer and their families, carers and communities. We are a source for support, helping anyone affected by cancer navigate through the system to get what they need, and a force for change, working to improve cancer care. | £245,546,254
<strong>Macmillan Cancer Support</strong> [Charity number: [SC039907](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039907)]<br>to provrde support, assistance and Information directly or rndirectly to people affected by cancer, (b) to further and build cancer awareness, education and research, (c) to promote and Influence effective care, Involvement and support for people affected by cancer In this Memorandum, 'people offected by cancer' Includes individuals who have a suspected or confirmed cancer diagnosis, their carers, families, friends, work colleagues, and anyone else directly or indirectly affected by cancer | £245,546,000
<strong>Royal Mencap Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC041079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041079)]<br>‘The charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to advancing the health, education and the well-being of people with a learning disability and their families and carers (the beneficiaries) by providing, procuring or facilitating care, services and facilities and to advance equality and diversity for people with a learning disability.’ | £244,357,000
<strong>Marie Curie</strong> [Charity number: [SC038731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038731)]<br>The Charity is established as a memorial to the late Marie Curie in lasting tribute to her life’s work, and in particular to her discovery of radium and its contribution in fighting the disease of cancer. The charity exists to serve all those with a terminal diagnosis, from cancer or other causes, their families and carers. The objects for which the charity is established for the public benefit are:  2.1.1 to provide and develop caring services, offering support, care and compassion through palliative care, advice and assistance for the benefit of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers.  2.1.2 to undertake and fund research into any aspect of the care and support of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers. and  2.1.3 to provide information, education and support to patients, their families, carers, those working in medical and other caring fields and the public regarding the care of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses. | £181,101,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROCHDALE COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1163666](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163666)]<br>RCP runs a weekly soup kitchen for the homeless , and poverty stricken families. They are provided with a safe environment to come and have a hot meal served  by volunteers.RCP aims to provide counselling sessions for any member of the community who is facing issues in their lives, this providing them with the necessary tools to overcome these issues. | £120
<strong>HARLEY'S HOUNDS ANIMAL RESCUE</strong> [Charity number: [1161902](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161902)]<br>Removing dogs from pounds and or abusive situations for the purpose of rehoming. To ensure all dogs rescued are de-sexed and receive the veterinary treatment needed before placing them in a permanent family home. To ensure all dogs receive life time back up so they don't ever return to the same situation they've been rescued from. | £62,132
<strong>BARLEY FIELDS PTFA</strong> [Charity number: [1211810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1211810)]<br>We are a large primary school. We hold regular fund raising activities for the children and their wilder family. Our aim from the events is to develop effective relationships between staff and families. These engaging activities allow us to raise funds to provide facilities or equipment which will support school and advance the education of the children whom attend. | £10,383
<strong>SEVENOAK KENYA EDUCATION TRUST (SKET</strong> [Charity number: [1118914](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118914)]<br>To advance education in Kenya ( in particular in Kajiado and Murang'a Districts) by :-a) Assisting young people from poor rural families with payment of their school fees without which schooling would be denied.b) Providing small financial grants for the imrovement of school facilities. | £21,615
<strong>WOVEN CHURCHES JOINT COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1206103](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206103)]<br>Woven Churches Joint council operates activities and services for adults, young people, children and families in North West Nottingham | £236,349
<strong>Strabane & District Caring Services</strong> [Charity number: [NI100218](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100218)]<br>This is what our organisation does: Strabane & District Caring Services is a not for profit community voluntary organisation & as a Social Enterprise is a significant contributor to the economy of Strabane. At present we employ 97 people & year on year for the past 28 years have incurred direct expenditure of almost £1m, the huge majority of which has been spent locally. Additional expenditure levied includes over £1million in grant aid & from various funders including Peace Funds & Big Lotteries as well as smaller grants giving bodies. We have also offered training placements to on average 10 participants annually as well as engaging volunteers annually. Our staff, placement participants & volunteers come from a variety of backgrounds & life circumstances – as do the Service Users. We work for men, women, lone parents, people living with disabilities, young adults, those approaching later life as well as unemployed & long term unemployed. Our Mission The stated mission of Strabane & District Caring Services is given as: To enhance the quality of life, further health care, encourage a greater sense of community spirit & to combat unemployment through job creation in the Western area. To empower individuals & families engage in activities which enhances the health & well being & encourage each to develop resilience to those issues which detract from them being an active citizen. | £5,073,201
<strong>Bump,Baby and Beyond  (Dumfries and Galloway)</strong> [Charity number: [SC045122](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045122)]<br>4.1 to advance education through provision of support, advice and information to parents and parents-to-be to give their children a healthy start in life. 4.2 to raise awareness of the benefits of breast feeding and the needs of parents and parents-to-be through working in partnership with a wide range of organisations. 4.3 to advance community development through building a volunteer led peer support network for families.   | £139
<strong>Paige's Musical Butterflies</strong> [Charity number: [SC051871](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051871)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 The advancement of education through teaching children suffering from cancer how to play musical instruments Paige's Musical Butterflies will help to provide musical instruments, music lessons and song writing lessons to children with cancer for use both in the hospital and at home. Lessons can either be delivered on a group or one to one basis. 4.2 The advancement of health, and in particular mental health through the provision of instruments and tuition to enable ill children and their families to find a distraction to their illness through music. Music is a great distraction and a great way to express feelings and bring people in difficult situations together. Paige?s Musical Butterflies will harness that to ensure ALL children with cancer and their families can use music as a form of escape, to help improve their mental health. Paige?s Musical Butterflies will use the power if music to provide a calm and comforting place for children with cancer to turn to help lift their mood. Paige?s Musical Butterflies will also help to provide additional support to oncology patients and their families by enabling families to come together and talk about their experiences and fears. 4.3 The advancement of the arts through music tuition, and providing sick children the resources to have access to music that may not be able to get or afford. 4.4 To provide recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities through the creation of places within hospitals for sick children and their families to take part in musical tuition and create their own music together. 4.5 The relief of those in need by ill health by providing a distraction and focus to sick and terminally ill children through music and friendship.   Music is proven to aid mental health and Paige?s Musical Butterflies aims to give sick and terminally ill children access to music where they have maybe not previously had access through financial hardship (the charity will supply instruments to allow them the access the power of music therapy) or a lack of education in music. | £36,656
<strong>Gift of Christmas Appeal Fife</strong> [Charity number: [SC047029](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047029)]<br>Purpose 1: The prevention or relief of poverty at Christmas time. To help ensure that for public benefit every child in Fife (aged 0-18 years) has a present to open on Christmas morning. To provide a route for the public to donate Christmas gifts to children living in poverty in the Fife area, for the benefit of the donating and receiving members of the public. We will receive donations of childrens Christmas gifts (toys, games, clothes etc) from members of the public, received at various drop off points. To pass these gifts directly to other charities organisations which work directly with children and families in need at Christmas time, for the public benefit. We will operate only within the area of Fife, Scotland, for the public benefit of individuals in this area. Beneficiaries will be children aged 0-18 years and their families. Purpose 2: The relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To receive Christmas gifts from members of the public and pass these to other charities I organisations which are working for the public benefit to relieve disadvantage, emotional and physical ill-health, disability and financial hardship or children and young people aged 0-18 years, in the Fife area, so the gifts received can be given directly to the individuals they have identified as being in need. 2. The expenses of creating and administering the Trust, and any tax payable in relation to the Trust, shall be met in priority to all other payments and transfers of assets out of the Trust Property.  | £16,482
<strong>ROGATE SCHOOL FAMILY AND FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [1089746](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089746)]<br>Raises funds for Pupils and Staff of Rogate C of E School | £8,507
