# Men `BE106`

Men is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

1,338 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.66% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(men'?s?)\b|male(s)?\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b(wom[ae]n'?s?|male or female|female (or|and|&) male|ladies)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 441 | 0.59%
£10k - £100k | 545 | 0.80%
£100k - £250k | 109 | 0.52%
£250k - £500k | 43 | 0.43%
£500k - £1m | 31 | 0.50%
£1m - £10m | 50 | 0.59%
Over £10m | 8 | 0.39%
Total | 1,227 | 0.64%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,021 | 0.60%
oscr | 218 | 0.88%
ccni | 99 | 1.38%
Total | 1,338 | 0.66%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PROSTATE CANCER UK</strong> [Charity number: [1005541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1005541)]<br>Prostate Cancer UK fights to help more men survive prostate cancer and enjoy a better quality of life. We support men living with prostate cancer, prostate diseases and the effects of treatment. We find answers by funding research and we lead change by campaigning and collaborating. We are the country's leading charity for men with prostate cancer and prostate problems. | £33,949,000
<strong>Prostate Cancer UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039332)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to: 4.1.1 encourage, support and carry out research into the causes, prevention, treatment and cure of prostate cancer and other prostate diseases and their effects and to publish the useful results of such research 4.1.2 educate the public on the issues relating to prostate cancer and other prostate diseases. 4.1.3 provide for the relief of suffering among men affected by prostate cancer and/or prostate diseases, their families and dependants, through the provision of support and information and in such other ways as the trustees may determine. | £33,949,000
<strong>NATIONAL COUNCIL OF YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATIONS (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [212810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212810)]<br>YMCA England & Wales supports and represents YMCAs all over England and Wales, helping them transform communities so that all young peoply truly belong, contribute and thrive.By working with YMCAs that understand local issues, the YMCA Movement in England & Wales meets the real needs of young people, supporting them in a way which is nationally significant but locally relevant. | £21,742,000
<strong>MOVEMBER EUROPE</strong> [Charity number: [1137948](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137948)]<br>Movember Europe's vision is to have an everlasting impact on men's health, with a focus on prostate cancer, testicular cancer poor mental health and physical inactivity. | £21,496,394
<strong>Movember Europe</strong> [Charity number: [SC041981](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041981)]<br>4.1.1 to advance men's health, including by conducting research into sickness, disease and issues relating to men's health. 4.1.2 to educate the public on issues relating to men's health, including by publishing the results of the research referred to above. 4.1.3 to promote the prevention and relief of sickness and disease in men, including by supporting new methods and practices for the prevention or relief of such sickness and disease and by providing support and information to men with health problems and to their families and dependents. 4.1.4 to further such other exclusively charitable purposes according to the law of England and Wales as the Trustees in their absolute discretion from time to time determine, including assisting other charities. | £21,496,394
<strong>Goodenough College</strong> [Charity number: [SC039173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039173)]<br>The objects for which the College is established are to organise, encourage and assist the education in England of students ('Resident members of the College') from any part of the world, giving preference to students from The Commonwealth (with priority for students from those nations less able from time to time to provide resources and facilities of their own) Provide that : for the purposes of this memorandum of association the expression 'student' shall mean and include all persons, both male and female, who for the purposes of education in any branch of knowledge, thought, philosophy or endeavour, or for any other related or connected purpose shall require residential accommodation or other services whilst resident in the United Kingdom for those purposes. | £16,389,000
<strong>BRIDGWATER YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1076434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076434)]<br>Provision of Homelessness prevention advice, Housing and support for young people (16-25), families, and vulnerable adults.  Community, Youth and families work including Early Years Provision,  Health and Wellbeing facilities, information and computer technology, lettings of rooms and facilities to local groups and agencies. Training opportunities through social enterprise activities. | £10,549,663
<strong>CITY OF LIVERPOOL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION (INC)</strong> [Charity number: [210443](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210443)]<br>To serve  the city of Liverpool by providing services for local communities that promote their welbeing in mind body and spirit. We achieve this through a spectrum of activities, such as housing, health initiatives, sport, the arts and various other activities across the city. | £10,322,433
<strong>THE CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [213121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213121)]<br>CENTRAL YMCA IS ONE OF THE WORLD'S OLDEST AND LARGEST CHARITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE. WE HELP MAKE LIVES HAPPIER, HEALTHIER AND MORE FULFILLED THROUGH A UNIQUE BLEND OF EDUCATION, TRAINING, ADVOCACY, AND SUPPORT. ALL OF OUR WORK GOES TOWARDS HELPING TO GIVE PEOPLE ACCESS TO LIFE-CHANGING OPPORTUNITIES NATIONWIDE THROUGH OUR FOUR OPERATIONS; YMCA TRAINING, YMCA AWARDS, YMCAFIT, AND YMCA CLUB. | £8,970,000
<strong>Action Mental Health</strong> [Charity number: [NI100753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100753)]<br>AMH supports people’s mental health and well-being through vocational training, employment guidance and personal development services. It has 12 service locations in Northern Ireland delivering projects based on the model of ‘recovery’ to over 3,000 adults annually, although delivery also increasingly takes place as ‘outreach’ in a variety of other locations across the region. The 5 Health and Social Care Trusts are also increasingly asking AMH to run similar recovery services for younger people (16-25). The Trusts in NI refer clients to AMH on the basis that the clients are suitable for recovery services leading to employment. The services provide tailored programmes of training for individuals to help them gain accredited qualifications and skills to ideally gain employment and/or lead more independent lives. Clients can attend services every day or on a sessional basis to suit their needs. AMH staff assist clients to write CVs and apply for jobs as well as getting them training placements with employers. Once clients have secured employment AMH staff are available for up to 6 months to help the individual retain the job; AMH staff also advise and guide employers in how to support clients. Following this path to employment individuals hopefully recover from their mental health issues. AMH delivers emotional resilience building programmes and reaches over 8,000 young people, their teachers and carers through these activities in NI and cross border; a similar programme is delivered to prisoners. The charity operates three Mens’ Sheds which assist with older men's emotional well being. AMH delivers a 'Protect Life' contract in NI which has a whole population approach to building emotional resilience in the Southern Health and Social Care Trust area. There are smaller ASD and Learning Disability projects designed to get people into employment. AMH also delivers DEL sponsored Government employment programmes to get people into work and keep them in work. | £7,939,599


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LANTERN OF KNOWLEDGE EDUCATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1111331](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111331)]<br>Homeless Feeding Programme (providing over 10,000 hot meals PA)Offer University Scholarships to under privileged studentsInterfaith & Community Cohesion Youth ActivitiesLantern of Knowledge Boys Secondary SchoolJamia Siraj Ul Uloom - Programmes include:Alimiyyah (6 yr course) Hifz, Maqtab,Tajweed Classes Adult Classes (2 yr for Male & Females)Short CoursesLantern Publications | £609,661
<strong>CORNISH FEDERATION OF MALE VOICE CHOIRS</strong> [Charity number: [292246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292246)]<br>1. Promoting male voice singing throughout Cornwall.2.Increasing public awareness of the cultural traditions and heritage of male voice singing in Cornwall and its benefits to local communities.3.Encouraging composers and arrangers to produce original music/arrangements for the future development and diversity of male voice music.4. Facilitating and organising massed choirs events. | £17,957
<strong>Cromarty Firth Men's Shed </strong> [Charity number: [SC047323](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047323)]<br>The purpose of the organisation is to provide recreational facilities and advance the social needs, health and well being of its members of all ages and backgrounds living in Cromarty Firth and surrounding areas By: a) Creating, developing and maintaining a facility, namely a Men's Shed. b) Offering opportunities for men in the Cromarty Firth area to meet and undertake creative, physical, purposeful and recreational activities of their choice. c) Reducing isolation of men in the area thus contributing to their physical and  mental wellbeing. d) Developing the capacity of men in the Cromarty Firth area to share their skills and knowledge with others in the community. | £2,491
<strong>THE BLUE RIBBON FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1141261](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141261)]<br>The Blue Ribbon Foundation is an educational charity with a mission to educate men and their partners to the benefits of living a healthy life.  Male health and wellbeing is at our core. | £30,161
<strong>British Limbless Ex-Service Men's Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC010315](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010315)]<br>The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £5,365,543
<strong>ROMSEY MALE VOICE CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1134638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134638)]<br>RMVC will study and practise choral music in order to foster public knowledge and appreciation of such music by public performance.RMVC will support local young musicians by providing them with opportunities to perform to audiences during concerts.RMVC will assist and support such charitable institutions or purposes, as the Committee shall from time to time determine. | £53,859
<strong>TALK CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1194033](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194033)]<br>Talk Club is a talking and listening club for men, helping to keep you mentally fit by giving you a secure and private space to share and support others in our community. | £234,933
<strong>EBENEZER BAPTIST CHURCH (SWANSEA)</strong> [Charity number: [1159628](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159628)]<br>Morning & evening Sunday ServicesBible Study & Prayer MeetingSunday School, children's & Young People's meetingsMother & Toddlers' GroupLadies' & Mens' MeetingsVisiting of & distribution of literature to local communityOpen Air literature stallChristianity Explored coursesSupport (financially, practically & in prayer) of other Christian workers/organizations in the UK & overseas | £209,704
<strong>Mars Training Ship Fund Scheme 1961</strong> [Charity number: [SC002256](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002256)]<br>Mars Training Ship Fund Scheme, 1961 - Under section 23: The governing body shall maintain in a good and sufficient state of repair ,the War Memorial erected at Woodhaven Pier, Wormit, by the subscriptions of the boys on board the' Mars '. Section 24 states: It shall be in the power of the governing body to award bursaries to lads of promise to enable them to attend residential courses in preparation for a seafaring career in any of its branches. Section 25 states: It shall be in the power of the governing body to make grants to - 1) young lads who require financial aid to enable them to attend or undertake suitable courses of instruction in one or more of the subjects of navigation, marine engineering, radio telegraphy, radar and ship's catering or otherwise to prepare themselves for or to follow a career in any branch of the Merchant Navy. (2) men of mature years who desire to follow a seafaring career and who require financial aid to enable them to attend or undertake suitable courses of instruction in one or more of the subjects of navigation, marine engineering, radio telegraphy, radar and ship's catering or otherwise to prepare themselves to take up seafaring in any of its branches. (3) junior officers in the Merchant Navy who require financial aid to enable them to advance themselves to higher rank by way of examinations, and (4) deck-hands who require financial aid to enable them to qualify as  officers in the Merchant Navy. Under section 26: It shall be in the power of the governing body to make outfit and equipment grants to- (1) young lads of promise who require financial aid to follow a course at an approved sea training school, and (2) young lads of suitable qualifications who require financial aid to enable them to become officers in the Merchant Navy. The said grants shall be expended at sight of the governing body in the acquisition of seagoing kit and such equipment as the governing body may approve. | £36,427
<strong>AXE VALLEY MEN'S SHED</strong> [Charity number: [1191653](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191653)]<br>Axe Valley Men's Shed provides space to enable social interaction, connections, friendship building, sharing skills and knowledge to reduce social isolation and contribute towards the support of mens mental heath and wellbeing. We also pursue practical interests, to share skills and contribute to local and community initiatives within the local area. | £26,100
