# Asylum seekers and refugees `BE101`

Asylum seekers and refugees is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](/data/ukcat/BE) category.

1,266 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.63% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(asylum|refugees?|immigration detainees?|human traffick?ing|deportation|leave to remain)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 341 | 0.41%
£10k - £100k | 386 | 0.60%
£100k - £250k | 159 | 0.85%
£250k - £500k | 94 | 1.06%
£500k - £1m | 65 | 1.16%
£1m - £10m | 50 | 0.65%
Over £10m | 20 | 1.14%
Total | 1,115 | 0.58%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,137 | 0.67%
oscr | 94 | 0.37%
ccni | 35 | 0.50%
Total | 1,266 | 0.63%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £172,706,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000566)]<br>THE CHARITY'S MAIN ACTIVITIES ARE TO CONTINUE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION THROUGH EVANGELISTIC OUTREACH, PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SALVATION ARMY TERRITORIES, FACILITATING INTERNATIONAL PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, CRISIS RELIEF, WORKING IN COMMUNITIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES AS CLOSE TO THE FAMILY UNIT AND FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING. | £56,868,000
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £33,983,581
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £31,888,255
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £25,990,763
<strong>Extern Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI103226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103226)]<br>Extern Group’s overarching mission is to help people to improve their lives and make communities safer. The charity manages the governance, financial and human resources, learning and development, business development, safeguarding and Health & Safety and estates and fleet, welfare and support for all organisations that form part of the Extern family of charitable companies. This enables those organisations to focus on direct service provision targeted at their direct beneficiaries including in NI: Children and young people who are supported through early intervention, prevention and diversionary services to remain in the community with their families; people who are homeless, at risk of homelessness or have been rehoused after a period of homelessness and are dealing with a range of complex issues such as poor mental health, addiction and dependence, anti-social behaviour; adults and young people who are unable to access mainstream education or training due to complex lives, offending and anti-social behaviours, who can attend Extern's alternative education and training programmes; people who have offended and are now resettling in the community and are provided with a range of support to promote rehabilitation and reduce their likelihood of re-offending; individuals/families who have been granted refugee status and given leave to remain. The Extern Group charity provides facilitation, administration and management of key personnel for partnerships between members of the Extern family of charities and other voluntary and public sector organisations to deliver a range of social welfare programmes. In addition Extern Group also provides direct support to social work students and other charitable organisations engaged in providing social work experience for students. | £25,190,936
<strong>THE BORDER CONSORTIUM</strong> [Charity number: [1109476](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109476)]<br>TBC PROVIDES FOOD, SHELTER, NON FOOD ITEMS AND CAPACITY BUILDING SUPPORT TO BURMESE REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS. IT ALSO RESEARCHES THE ROOT CAUSES OF DISPLACEMENT AND REFUGEE OUTFLOWS AND ADVOCATES ON BEHALF OF THE REFUGEES AND DISPLACED PERSONS. | £23,803,920
<strong>Migrant Helpline</strong> [Charity number: [SC041022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041022)]<br>2.1 The objects for which the Company is established ('the Objects') are:  2.1.1 The relief of sickness and financial hardship of Beneficiaries including: (a) information and advice on counselling, health, legal and welfare services and assistance. (b) advice on financial maintenance which may include the direct provision of financial assistance, goods and services. (c) advice on and provision of residential accommodation. (d) such other items or services as the Trustees in their discretion choose to provide.  2.1.2 To advance the education and training of Beneficiaries and their dependants in need thereof so as to advance them in life and assist them to adapt within a new community.  2.1.3 To promote for the public benefit the sound administration of the law by providing advocacy services to Beneficiaries and their dependants.  2.1.4 To advance the education of the public in general about the issues relating to human migration.  2.2 In this Article 2, 'Beneficiaries' are defined as individuals, being:  2.2.1 foreign nationals. or  2.2.2 victims of human trafficking or potential victims of human trafficking (regardless of their nationality).   who are in difficulty on their arrival, stay or residence in or departure from the UK. | £22,395,000
<strong>MIGRANT HELPLINE</strong> [Charity number: [1088631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088631)]<br>1 The relief of refugees and their families and dependants who are in conditions of need,hardship or distress2 to inform, advise and assist foreigners and Commonwealth citizens who are in difficulty or distress during their stay in the UK or in connection with their arrival or departure therefrom3 to promote the rights of refugees through the provision of advocacy and information. | £22,395,000
<strong>SOCIETY OF JESUS TRUST OF 1929 FOR ROMAN CATHOLIC PURPOSES</strong> [Charity number: [230165](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-230165)]<br>PARISH MINISTRY: in parishes & in university chaplaincies SPIRITUALITY: centres, programmes & publications for spiritual education EDUCATION: schools, colleges of higher educationFORMATION: for Jesuits & Catholic clergySOCIAL JUSTICE & RELIEF OF POVERTY: Jesuit Refugee Service & service to the poorCARE OF INFIRM & ELDERLY JESUITS JESUIT WORK OVERSEAS | £21,158,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Solas Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101627)]<br>Solas Trust provides safe housing as a place of refuge, rehabilitation and restoration for women who are victims of human trafficking and/or prostitution through the provision of medium to long-term residential care, the facilitation of structured healing (physical, psychological and emotional) and life-skill programmes as well as support with family re-integration, job skills and legal representation. In addition it provides short-term emergency accommodation for vulnerable women. | £51,218
<strong>Simply Serving Ministries</strong> [Charity number: [NI102580](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102580)]<br>•Raises awareness or understanding of the Christian faith. •Encourages the practice and maintenance of the doctrines of Jesus Christ, as found in the Holy Bible. •Shares the gospel of Jesus Christ to individuals and communities. •Assists in the provision of Bibles, Christian literature and other media •Sends out teams of people for missions, outreach and other forms of spiritual or practical Christian work. •Provides pastoral care or support to missionaries, pastors or church leaders. •Contributes to the spiritual and moral education of adults and children through the general study of the Holy Bible and religious teachings. •Volunteer training to sustain or increase skills or expertise of potential future church leaders, pastors or missionaries. •Provides grants of money for: a)The advancement of the Christian faith. b)The prevention or relief of poverty c)The relief of those in need d)The advancement of education. e)Provision of education camps for young people. f)The provision of teaching resources, books, pamphlets, tracts, digital or otherwise. g)The provision of transport facilities to allow the work supported to be undertaken with different sections of the public. •Supplies resources such as clothing, bedding, furniture, food, fuel, tools and other necessary humanitarian items to those who cannot afford them. •Provides medical equipment for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health or disability. •Provides building materials, supplies or teams of workers for the erection, renovation or restoration of church buildings; outreach centres, children’s homes or medical centres. •Supplies practical relief to refugees through overseas aid. •Informs others about the advancement of the Christian faith in the countries the charity operates; through meetings, conferences, seminars or talks; reports, letters or updates via the internet. •Offers opportunities for worship, conferences, seminars or talks. | £22,941
<strong>NARTHEX SPARKHILL</strong> [Charity number: [1100358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100358)]<br>Narthex Sparkhill seeks to promote inter cultural harmony within the inner-city area of Sparkhill, Birmingham by provision of community facilities and education opportunities.  Current regular activities offered are:Foodbank, one stop advice centre, domestic violence support, friendship cafe, youth club, lunch club for the elderly and refugee drop-in and resource centre. | £730,515
<strong>WOMEN SEEKING SANCTUARY ADVOCACY GROUP WALES</strong> [Charity number: [1165259](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165259)]<br>WSSAG Wales is a lobbying, advocacy and support group working with asylum seeker and refugee women and their families in order to bring about positive changes in the refugee system and provide support and activities for them. | £16,445
<strong>The Constantinian Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [1182612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182612)]<br>The charity raises funds for education assistance programmes for challenged refugee children from Syria attending state schools in Lebanon. | £2,829
<strong>ETHIOPIAN WOMEN'S EMPOWERMENT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1120326](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120326)]<br>The charity provides the following activities. (1) Employability project:- for refugee women providing jobsearch skills, interview techniques information session and holding an open day. (2) Coffee morning:- to alleviate isolation and strengthen the social bondage amongst refugee women. (3) Homework club:- to equip refugee children with maths and english skills. | £206,738
<strong>SOMALI COMMUNITY SUPPORT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1097147](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097147)]<br>The organisation provides a wide range of services to the Refugee community in west LondonMainly of Somali origin. such as; Poverty eradication, health, education, employment related, Skills development training, advice in housing, and welfare benefits, Advocacy, Youth Crime prevention project, IT& ESOL Classes, Overseas projects for Humanitarian,Sustainable developments in East Africa. | £9,791
<strong>SUPPORT HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1195288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195288)]<br>3.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY ARE TO RELIEVE THE NEED OF MIGRANTS, THOSE SEEKING ASYLUM AND THOSE SEEKING OR GRANTED REFUGEE STATUS (AND THE DEPENDENTS THEREOF) FROM IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) SAUDI ARABIA AND OTHER COUNTRIES IN THE GULF REGION THROUGH:3.1.1 THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING SO AS TO ADVANCE THEM IN LIFE AND ASSIST THEM TO ADAPT WITHIN A NEW COMMUNITY, INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) BY THE PROVISION OF GRANTS TO ENABLE ACCESS TO EDUCATION OR TRAINING;3.1.2 THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION, LEGAL ADVICE AND OTHER ADVICE;3.1.3 THE RELIEF OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP PARTICULARLY BUT WITHOUT LIMITATION BY THE PROVISION OF GRANTS, FACILITIES, FOOD, ITEMS AND OTHER SUPPORT; AND3.1.4 THE RELIEF OF UNEMPLOYMENT BY THE PROVISION OF VOCATIONAL AND SKILLS TRAINING, INFORMATION, ADVICE, ASSISTANCE AND SUPPORT.NOTHING IN THIS CONSTITUTION SHALL AUTHORISE AN APPLICATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE CHARITY FOR PURPOSES WHICH ARE NOT CHARITABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 7 OF THE CHARITIES AND TRUSTEE INVESTMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT 2005 AND SECTION 2 OF THE CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008. | 
<strong>FOLLOW THE WOMEN</strong> [Charity number: [1123885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123885)]<br>Follow the Women is a non-political international organisation and registered charity that campaigns for peace and an end to violence in the Middle East. Over 500 women from more than 40 countries around the world work to promote a greater understanding of the region and raise money for local projects such as building playgrounds for children and sewing projects for women in refugee camps. | 
<strong>THE MUSTARD TREE</strong> [Charity number: [1135192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135192)]<br>Mustard Tree operates across Greater Manchester, providing food, clothing furniture and training for individuals in need.  Our beneficiaries include those experiencing or at risk of homelessness, those recovering from addictions, ex-offenders, refugees, asylum seekers and those with mental health issues.  We run various programmes helping people re-find their confidence, motivation and employment. | £1,660,427
