# Girls `BE104`

Girls is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

4,303 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(girl'?s?|young women)`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,396 | 3.36%
£10k - £100k | 957 | 1.36%
£100k - £250k | 235 | 1.05%
£250k - £500k | 112 | 1.01%
£500k - £1m | 89 | 1.28%
£1m - £10m | 208 | 2.27%
Over £10m | 147 | 6.54%
Total | 4,144 | 2.14%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,321 | 1.35%
oscr | 1,512 | 6.06%
ccni | 470 | 6.72%
Total | 4,303 | 2.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE GIRLS' DAY SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [306983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306983)]<br>To remain at the forefront of education, extend excellence and innovation in dynamic educationalsettings and maintain our leadership in the education of young people, principally women. | £373,418,000
<strong>CAMFED INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1029161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029161)]<br>Camfed tackles poverty and inequality by supporting girls to go to school and succeed, and empowering young women to step up as leaders of change. Camfed invests in girls and women in the poorest rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa, where girls face acute disadvantage. and where their empowerment is now transforming communities. | £84,638,714
<strong>MARLBOROUGH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [309486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309486)]<br>Marlborough College is incorporated by Royal Charter and registered as an education charity.  The College provides education for boys and girls for the ages 13-18.  The number of pupils in the College averaged 924 of whom 888 were boarders and 36 were day pupils. Under its grant making policy the total number of pupils receiving fee assistance in the academic year 2014/15 was 119. | £77,747,000
<strong>HABERDASHERS' ASKE'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [313996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313996)]<br>To operate schools for boys and girls at Elstree, Hertfordshire, and to support federated Haberdasher Academies in Greater London | £68,005,000
<strong>CHARTERHOUSE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [312054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312054)]<br>To advance education by the provision of a day and boarding school for boys and girls. | £64,815,965
<strong>THE DEAN CLOSE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1086829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086829)]<br>Education of boys and girls based on Christian principles. Encouragement of personal development in a culture of service to the school and wider communities. | £63,803,816
<strong>PLAN INTERNATIONAL UK</strong> [Charity number: [276035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276035)]<br>Plan International UK is a global children's charity. We strive to advance children's rights and equality for girls all over the world. We work to give every child the same chance in life by giving children and their communities access to education, healthcare, clean water and more. And if disaster strikes we are there to protect children to keep them learning and help them recover. | £61,680,000
<strong>DULWICH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [1150064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150064)]<br>The advancement of education of children for the benefit of the public by: a) the conduct at Dulwich of a day and boarding school for boys which may include a preparatory department, and if thought fit, the provision of a pre-preparatory school for boys and girls; and b) the provision and support of other educational institutions and activities in Dulwich and elsewhere in the United Kingdom. | £59,441,011
<strong>REIGATE GRAMMAR SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1081898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081898)]<br>The provision of day school education, in or near Reigate, to boys and girls between the ages of two and eighteen. | £58,566,585
<strong>OneSchool Global UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC049398](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049398)]<br>The charity's objects ('objects') are specifically restricted to: 4.1.1 the advancement of education by such means as the directors shall determine and in particular by the provision and conduct of schools for the education of boys and girls in accordance with the religious ethos of the Plymouth Brethren Christian Church and other associated activities for the benefit of the community. 4.1.2 any other charitable purpose or charitable purposes relating to or connected with Brethren which the directors may from time to time in their absolute discretion select. and 4.1.3 purposes ancillary or incidental to 4.1.1 or 4.1 .2.  | £55,480,559


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>1st claudy rainbows</strong> [Charity number: [NI106540](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106540)]<br>Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £1,491
<strong>18th A East Kilbride Brownie Unit</strong> [Charity number: [SC037905](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037905)]<br>Promoting the instruction of girls of all classes in the principles of discipline, loyalty and good citizenship | £1,269
<strong>293rd B City of Glasgow Brownie Unit</strong> [Charity number: [SC037200](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037200)]<br>Promoting the instruction of girls of all classes in the principles of discipline, loyalty, and good citizenship. | £3,763
<strong>HARROGATE LADIES' COLLEGE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [529579](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-529579)]<br>Harrogate Ladies' College provides education to boys and girls in accordance with the principles of the Church of England. The business of the charity is entirely related to running schools known as Harrogate Ladies' College (girls only from 11 years to 18 years) and Highfield (co-educational from 2 years to 11 years) in Harrogate, North Yorkshire. | £8,255,099
<strong>Smoulderpoint</strong> [Charity number: [SC055010](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC055010)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are to provide resources and support for adults in the following areas: (a) Advancement of education, as per section 7(2)(b) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. especially in relation to: (i) literacy services for specific groups, including assistance for neurodiverse individuals (individuals with a learning difficulty), who tend to be over-represented in prison and sex worker populations (ii) support and skills development for certain groups of individuals with a conviction, (iii) support and skills development for sex workers wishing to transition into “mainstream” work, (iv) resources and support for victims and survivors of sexual assault (including rape), coercive control, domestic violence (v) training with regards to and for perpetrators of sexual assault (including rape), coercive control, domestic violence (vi) bystander (including enabler) training and services, resources and training for support services/agencies who provide support to individuals in the categories above, and other support as necessary to be responsive to the needs of the categories of individuals mentioned above (b) The promotion of equality and diversity, as per section 7(2)(j) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, to have positive impacts on: (i) social inclusion and the reduction of stigma for those wishing to leave sex work or sexual exploitation, those affected by and/or feeling stigmatised by sexual violence, and reduction of stigma to former prisoners who wish to find work, reducing recidivism rates (ii) improving the economic circumstances around those exiting sex work, recovering from sexual exploitation, including from sexual violence, coercive control and/or domestic violence (iii) supporting the recovery and flourishing of those affected by domestic violence, coercive control and sexual assault so that victims/survivors can build agency, confidence, resilience and engage equally in society (iv) community education and community development especially with regards to bystander training, enabler training, training and upskilling for former sex workers and those wishing to transition out of sex work, support for victims of sexual assault, employment and upskilling for former prisoners, and other specific communities affected by the issues listed in section 4(a) above, so that they can participate fully and equally in their communities and in society, with agency and without stigma or risks associated with inappropriate behaviour due to stigma, misunderstanding and prejudice around sex work (c) The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, as per section 7(2)(g) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, insofar as art will be an integral part of expression by marginalised communities, art will be used for collaborations for fundraising, art mentorship will be offered to audiences who might otherwise be excluded, and art therapy and other art-based healing techniques will be provided to support people on their journey into alternative outcomes. (d) The advancement of human rights, as per section 7(2)(j) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, to have positive impacts on equal rights, especially with regards to providing services that address key issues such as: (i) Women and girls are disproportionately affected by sexual violence, domestic violence and coercive control. Scotland is a leader in legislation addressing coercive control, and education and promotion of this to other parts of the world is an important step in promoting the rights of women, girls and vulnerable groups, as well as others affected by these issues (resources will be non-gendered, inclusive e.g. of transgender, non-binary and male victims also) FULL VERSION OF OBJECTS CAN BE VIEWED WITHIN THE CHARITY'S GOVERNING DOCUMENT | 
<strong>Greater Ballyclare Youth for Christ</strong> [Charity number: [NI102290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102290)]<br>GBYFC runs a youth centre in Ballyclare that offers a variety of programmes for children and young people. Examples of programmes offered include girls group, guys group, breakfast club, football, youth alpha, drop-in and one-to-one mentoring. Where appropriate we also offer detached youth work throughout the Greater Ballyclare Area. We also work in schools and churches in the Greater Ballyclare area. In everything that we do we aim to help young people to find Jesus, follow Jesus and join His family. | £78,569
<strong>Moldova and Beyond</strong> [Charity number: [1174960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174960)]<br>The Love Moldova Foundation is a Christian charity which raises funds in the UK to support the poor and vulnerable in Moldova and to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ.  We work with Moldovan charities, churches and individuals to fund a home for vulnerable elderly ladies and to support a refuge for young girls at risk of trafficking as well as outreach and youth work by the churches. | £40,628
<strong>127th Belfast Guide Unit</strong> [Charity number: [NI104383](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104383)]<br>Organisation’s Activities Girlguiding believes in the value of learning by doing. This is put into practice through a Method with five interlinking elements, known as the Five Essentials of guiding: • working together in small groups • encouraging self-government and decision making • a balanced and varied programme • caring for the individual • sharing a commitment to a common standard The Guiding Method is delivered to young members grouped by age into four sections: Rainbow Guides, Brownie Guides, Guides and members of The Senior Section. Its principles apply to all members, including adults. | £1,782
<strong>Deanby Youth Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI101009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101009)]<br>Deanby Youth Club was originally established in 1969 but at the height of the troubles the club was forced into closure on more than one occasion. In 2004, a group of volunteers attempted once more to re-open the club and it has remained open ever since. The Youth Club provides community based support for young people across Oldpark, Cliftonville and Upper Ardoyne areas of North Belfast. We offer a variety of age specific groups that participate in a number of positive, fun and structured activities. We provide gender specific work with both boys and girls and we often provide a range of projects that young people can use to develop skills, confidence and self-esteem. We seek to develop a range of cross community initiatives in order to address the legacy of the conflict and to tackle some of the remaining fractious and tense relations between young people of both communities. Currently, the youth centre is open as a drop in centre 5 evenings per week and some of our regular activities include Ju Jitsu and disability club. The Youth centre is supported annually by the Belfast education and library board but it relies on entrance fees and our tuck shop to sustain and manage costs. We try and source funds from other sources in order to meet the needs of members and deliver innovative and valuable programmes. | £67,914
<strong>CYLCH MEITHRIN RHOSYBOL</strong> [Charity number: [1186799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186799)]<br>Cylch Meithrin Rhosybol aims to provide quality Welsh-medium sessional care and early years education for boys and girls from 2 and a half years up to the age of a nursery school | £25,153
