# Children `BE102`

Children is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

26,430 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 13.05% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(child(ren)?|kid[sz])\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 8,207 | 10.96%
£10k - £100k | 9,236 | 13.50%
£100k - £250k | 3,690 | 17.70%
£250k - £500k | 1,498 | 15.01%
£500k - £1m | 866 | 13.98%
£1m - £10m | 1,138 | 13.34%
Over £10m | 257 | 12.46%
Total | 24,892 | 13.04%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 22,766 | 13.35%
oscr | 2,359 | 9.49%
ccni | 1,305 | 18.16%
Total | 26,430 | 13.05%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SAVE THE CHILDREN INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1076822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076822)]<br>Save the Children works in around 120 countries to deliver immediate and lasting change to children's lives. We program across all contexts to ensure all children survive, learn and are protected. Save the Children International and 29 member organisations make up Save the Children Association. Together in 2015 we reached 62 million children directly through our and our partners' work. | £1,309,489,397
<strong>THE ORMISTON TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1164358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164358)]<br>Ormiston Trust supports children and their families by way of grants to Ormiston organisations and the sponsorship of Multi Academy Trusts. Four core values underpin our work: Nurture; Empower; Innovate; and Impact. | £338,887,000
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £315,252,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>THE SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [213890](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213890)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE DISTRESS AND TO PROMOTE THE WELFARE OF CHILDREN IN ANY COUNTRY OR COUNTRIES, WITHOUT DIFFERENTIATION ON THE GROUND OF RACE, COLOUR, NATIONALITY, CREED OR SEX TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC CONCERNING THE NATURE, CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF DISTRESS, AND WANT OF WELFARE AS AFORESAID, AND TO CONDUCT AND PROCURE RESEARCH CONCERNING THE SAME AND TO MAKE AVAILABLE THE USEFUL RESULTS THEREOF. | £296,015,000
<strong>The Save the Children Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039570)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is  established are to relieve the distress and hardship, and to promote the welfare of children in any country or countries, place or places, without differentiation on the ground of race, colour, nationality, creed or sex and to educate the public concerning the nature, causes and effects of distress, hardship and want of welfare as aforesaid, and to conduct and procure research concerning the same and to make available the useful results thereof to the public. | £296,015,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £274,694,061
<strong>THE UNITED KINGDOM COMMITTEE FOR UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [1072612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072612)]<br>UNICEF is the world's leading organisation working for children. UNICEF works in partnership with families, local communities, partners and governments in over 190 countries and territories to help every child realise their full potential.UNICEF UK raises funds for UNICEF's emergency and development work around the world and advocates for lasting change for children worldwide. | £179,503,000
<strong>United Kingdom Committee for UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [SC043677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043677)]<br>5.1 The objects of the Charity are: 5.2 to promote human rights for children (as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments) throughout the world. 5.3 To further charitable work for children throughout the world including work through families and their communities for : 5.3.1 The relief of poverty and need. 5.3.2 The provision of education and training. 5.3.3 The promotion and protection of, and provision for , health. and 5.3.4 The protection of children who are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse.  | £160,850,000
<strong>RASPBERRY PI FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1129409](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129409)]<br>The object of the charity is to further the advancement of education of adults and children, particularly in the field of Computers, Computer Science and related subjects | £157,262,030


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Stardom International Christian Centre (SICC) Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC048694](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048694)]<br>Article 7: Objectives The objectives of SICC Scotland shall be as follows:  1. the revival of the Christian faith and multi-racial evangelical fellowship  2. the advancement of religion and spiritual growth in Scotland  3. the promotion of bible study and teaching, and Sunday school for children and young people  4. the relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill health, disability, and bereavement  5. the encouragement of corroborative worship programs to foster peaceful coexistence of people of all races, faiths, beliefs and ethnicities across Scotland.  6. Fighting discrimination on the basis of religious belief and Christian faith  | £6,549
<strong>KEEP HATCH SCHOOLS PARENTS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1021929](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021929)]<br>School Parents Association, various activities to promote a better envirornment for the children at Keep Hatch School | £26,372
<strong>THRIVE EDUCATION INCLUSION SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1205812](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205812)]<br>Our current key activities include: one 2 one mentoring, improving school attendance for emotional based school avoidance, an anxiety programme and parental support for children, young people and parents residing in Tonbridge, Kent. | 
<strong>Anahilt Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI104666](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104666)]<br>Anahilt Playgroup is a voluntary organisation managed by an elected group of parents on an annual basis ( The Management Committee ). The main purpose is to offer pre-school education in the Anahilt and surrounding areas to children in their final pre-school year. The playgroup is managed on a daily basis by a Playgroup Leader, a Deputy Leader and 2 Playgroup Assistants who are all qualified in line with the Department of Education and Training requirements. The playgroup can also offer training experiences to local students who have ambitions to develop a career in this particular area of education. The staff adhere to stringent safeguarding policies and practices, ensure that any recommendations made following Social Services or Education and Training Inspectorate visits or inspections are implemented and work closely with Early Years – the organisation for young children to promote best practices. The playgroup offers high quality activities and age appropriate play experiences to promote childrens learning in all areas of their development in line with the 6 areas of the early years curriculum. The playgroup actively encourages the involvement of parents/carers to share in their childrens learning by encouraging them to take on roles within the Management Committee, participating in fund raising activities and by accompanying their children on various outings arranged throughout the year. Parents are invited to apply for Access NI clearance to enable them to work within the classroom on projects with the children. The playgroup has formed close links with the local Primary Schools in Anahilt and the surrounding areas and promotes itself to be part of the local community. It works closely with other local community groups, Schools and Playgroups to promote local interest and encourages the participation of children and their parents/carers at every opportunity. | £62,273
<strong>THE WATERLOO FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1117535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117535)]<br>OUR MAIN PROGRAMMES SUPPORT:WORLD DEVELOPMENT IN THE POOREST COUNTRIES (ALTHOUGH NOT DISASTER RELIEF) THE ENVIRONMENT, ESPECIALLY SUSTAINABLE PROJECTS IMPACTING CLIMATE CHANGE, CHILD DEVELOPMENT ESPECIALLY PSYCHOLOGICAL RESEARCH AND MENTAL HEALTH AND FOR OUR OWN COMMUNITY, WE CAN ALSO SUPPORT A NUMBER OF PROJECTS IN WALES. | £10,318,255
<strong>THE LITTLE ARK PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1136923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136923)]<br>To enhance the development and education of children primarily under statutory school age in particular but not exclusively by i) offering appropriate play,education & care facilities and training coursesii) creating a happy, caring & inclusive environment in which children can explore & develop & nurture their self esteem & work alongside parents & prepare them for their transition to school. | £166,607
<strong>FRIENDS AND RELATIONS OF GREYSBROOKE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1171444](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171444)]<br>We are a group of parents, grandparents and staff who raise money by organising fun events throughout the school year, for the children, their families and their friends.  All money raised goes towards providing the children with additional resources and experiences. | £15,745
<strong>THE PIPPA JONES LITTLE TREASURE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1139382](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139382)]<br>THE CHARITY PROVIDES ACTIVITY BAGS TO YOUNG CHILDREN WITH A DIAGNOSIS OF CANCER, GIFT BAGS TO TEENAGERS WITH CANCER AND SIBLING BAGS FOR THEIR BROTHERS AND SISTERS.WE PROVIDE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TOWARDS CHILDCARE COSTS SUCH AS NURSERY FEES, AFTER SCHOOL CLUBS AND CHILDMINDER FEES FOR FAMILIES WHO HAVE A CHILD WITH CANCER. WE PROVIDE FUNDING FOR RESEARCH INTO CHILDHOOD BRAIN TUMOURS | £2,077
<strong>LIGHTYEAR FOUNDATION LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1150231](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150231)]<br>To advance education in science amongst schoolchildren and adults in the UK, including by:- breaking down barriers to help disabled children and young adults participate in STEM- organising events which promote an interest in science- investigating and using new technology to communicate scientific knowledge and understanding | £158,622
<strong>Bangla Centre </strong> [Charity number: [SC045854](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045854)]<br>a) To advance education by raising awareness of Bangladeshi culture, tradition and language by supporting a community school for children, young people and adults at weekend named 'Bangia School'. b) The advancement of the Arts by organising traditional, annual, religious and historic events practiced by Bangladeshis. by coordinating the cultural programmes and workshops at these events. by engaging professional and nonprofessional artists to perform at and to work with local communities leading up to these events. c) The provision of recreational activities for local communities by organising various sport events at least once in a year for adults and kids e.g., football, badminton, cricket tournaments and others.  In furtherance thereof the association shall seek to: a) preserve, enhance, enrich and share Bangladeshi culture, tradition and language in Scotland by building a strong cohesive sense of Bangladeshi identity  b) bridge differences between communities in Scotland by promoting harmony among communities themselves and the receiving community irrespective of ethnic origin, religious belief, age, gender or sexuality.  c) Work in partnership with other voluntary, statutory and community organisations serving similar purposes e.g. Gaelic School, Glasgow.  d) Provide a forum where issues of common concern can be raised and information, skills and good practice can be shared.  e) Coordinate the provision of initiatives which allow Bangladeshi communities to come together in joint activity with each other and the wider community.  f) Coordinate grassroots networking activity to provide aid to Bangladeshi communities at both local and international levels.  | £39,496
