# Young people `BE115`

Young people is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

22,485 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 11.05% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(young(er)? (people|person)s?|1[3-9] and over|youth work|youth)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 6,124 | 8.59%
£10k - £100k | 8,116 | 11.53%
£100k - £250k | 2,849 | 12.71%
£250k - £500k | 1,616 | 14.60%
£500k - £1m | 957 | 13.75%
£1m - £10m | 1,191 | 12.98%
Over £10m | 217 | 9.66%
Total | 21,070 | 10.89%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 18,520 | 10.80%
oscr | 2,778 | 11.14%
ccni | 1,187 | 16.97%
Total | 22,485 | 11.05%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE GIRLS' DAY SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [306983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306983)]<br>To remain at the forefront of education, extend excellence and innovation in dynamic educationalsettings and maintain our leadership in the education of young people, principally women. | £373,418,000
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £345,552,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo's helps children and young people to be safer, happier, healthier and more hopeful. We provide specialist support for children and young people, including those in and leaving care, facing mental health challenges, seeking sanctuary, at risk of exploitation and needing support accessing education, training and employment. We campaign for improved policy and attitudes towards childhood. | £340,251,582
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>THE ERIC WRIGHT CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1002966](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002966)]<br>The Trust is a general purpose charity with a particular interest in supporting young people and the elderly in the North West of England | £308,912,000
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £291,074,000
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £235,558,118
<strong>Community Integrated Care</strong> [Charity number: [SC039671](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039671)]<br>The principal Object of the Charity is to promote for the public benefit the relief of those in need because of youth, age, ill-health, or disability throughout the United Kingdom in such a way as the Charity shall from time to time think fit by: | £197,363,000
<strong>Waythrough</strong> [Charity number: [515755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515755)]<br>Waythrough was formed from the merger of  Humankind and Richmond Fellowship. We work with people with complex, multiple needs and disadvantages and are committed to multi disciplinary working within our own teams and with external agencies. Our main areas of work focus are substance misuse, mental health challenges, residential support, families and young people, training and employment. | £165,226,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CRAWLEY COMMUNITY CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1174869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174869)]<br>To advance the Christian religion and to carry out other charitable works. We continue to carry out activities, local and further afield, in order to achieve these activities we have weekly meetings of Christian Worship & Teaching, weekly events for Youth and Children, Support for missionary bodies locally and internationally along with charitable support to humanitarian crises on an ad hoc basis | £315,332
<strong>Golspie Youth Action Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC022176](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022176)]<br>The objects of the Project will be to help and educate young people of the Parish of Golspie, through their leisure-time and recreational etc activities, so to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and members of Society and that their conditions of life may be improved. The Project will endeavour to carry out the aforesaid objects by: (a) seeking to increase opportunities for the provision of safe recreation, leisure and learning facilities. (b) organising a programme of activities and information and skills sessions as deemed necessary or beneficial. (c) promoting any other events or activities to help improve opportunities for young people. (d) providing paid and voluntary leadership to ensure a, b & c are achieved. | £78,238
<strong>Colin Neighbourhood Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [NI100092](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100092)]<br>What the Organisation Does (i) Strengthening Families Programme bringing parents and young people together with the goal of reducing substance abuse and other behavioural problems. (ii) Roots of Empathy Programme to foster the development of empathy, to develop emotional literacy, to reduce levels of bullying, aggression and violence, promote children’s pro-social behaviours, increase knowledge of human development, learning and infant safety and prepare children for responsible citizenship and responsive parenting. (iii) Colin Early Parenting Programme aimed at assisting parents with new babies who would be deemed vulnerable to poor outcomes due to family issues. (iv) Provision of Speech and Language Therapy on an outreach basis for children in p1and 2 in the Colin area and for training for teachers and parents. (v) Take Ten Programme to educate children in emotional regulation techniques. (vi) Time 4 Me counselling service addressing the mental health needs of 4-11 year olds in all Primary Schools in Colin. (vii) Colin Health for all Programme including Pilot Health Checks, Early Intervention Community, Domestic Violence Forum, Drug and Alcohol Forum, Suicide Prevention Programme, Men’s Group, COPD support Group, Arthritis Support Group and Colin 60+ Forum. (viii) Community Safety Programmes. (ix) Environmental and Recreational Programmes including The Colin Gateway Project, The Colin Town Centre, The Allotments Project, Mapping monitoring and addressing Hotspots, Evaluating Major Planning Applications, Submission of Projects for Awards Programmes. (x) Colin Youth Strategy (xi) Volunteer development including training. (xii) Colin Care providing significant levels of care to those in need in South and West Belfast. (xiii) Enviro Care | £1,106,688
<strong>MIDDLESBROUGH SPORTABILITY CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1134582](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134582)]<br>To relieve the needs of young persons residents in Middlesbrough and the surrounding area by the provision of facilities for recreation and sport for individuals in particular, but not exclusively, those aged 8-19 years of age who have learning disabilites and those with physical and/or sensory impairment. | £31,878
<strong>CHRIST CHURCH UNITED REFORMED CHURCH CHELMSFORD CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1131065](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131065)]<br>Christ Church Chelmsford exists for the public worship of God according to the principles and usages of the United Reformed Church.  It believes that the priorities for the life of the congregation and its outreach in the local community should be preaching/teaching and spiritual direction, youth and childrenÔÇÖs work, pastoral care, and Church growth. | £215,459
<strong>TOBI ADEYEMI FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1144191](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144191)]<br>EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR DISADVANTAGED YOUNG PEOPLE | £30,781
<strong>CHURCH ALIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1159137](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159137)]<br>The charity works for the advancement of the Christian faith, the relief of persons in need, hardship or distress or who are aged or sick, and the advancement of education on the basis of Christian principles. It holds public Sunday services, runs activities for children and young people in the community, holds meetings for Bible study, prayer and fellowship. | £105,328
<strong>JALALPUR WELFARE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1196724](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196724)]<br>THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED, BY REASON OF YOUTH, AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR OTHER DISADVANTAGE WHO RESIDE IN THE VILLAGE OF JALALPUR, FROM THE PAIL GOAN UNION OF SYLHET, BANGLADESH THROUGH PROVIDING SUPPORT AND ACCESS TO SERVICES, SUCH AS, EDUCATION, HEALTHCARE, FOOD AND OTHER ESSENTIAL SERVICES THEY OTHERWISE MAY NOT HAVE ACCESS TO. | 
<strong>Friends Of The Black Watch Castle and Museum</strong> [Charity number: [SC041823](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041823)]<br>This clause shall be interpreted as if it incorporated an over-riding qualification to the effect that in any case in which an activity permitted under this clause is in its nature capable of being carried on for purposes which are not charitable, or only partially so, as well as for wholly charitable purposes, (the words “charitable purposes” shall have the meaning ascribed to them for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, including any statutory amendment or re-enactment for the time being in force, which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts (which meaning shall be assigned to the words “charitable purposes” wherever they appear in this Constitution)), the powers of the association under this Constitution shall be deemed to be limited to the carrying on of such activity in such manner as will not prejudice the charitable status of the association under the statutory provisions referred to above. Subject to that over-riding qualification, the association's purpose is to support the activities and property of The Black Watch Regimental Trust (Scottish Charity SC005848). Its detailed objects are:   2.1. The advancement of education by supporting the educational activities of The Black Watch Regimental Trust and its outreach programmes.  2.2. The advancement of the arts, heritage, and culture by:  2.2.1. supporting the acquisition of artefacts and archive material by The Black Watch Regimental Trust.  2.2.2. supporting the conservation of the artefacts and archive of The Black Watch Regimental Trust. 2.2.3. supporting the public display and interpretation of artefacts and archive material by The Black Watch Regimental Trust.  2.2.4. supporting the maintenance and development of heritable property owned by The Black Watch Regimental Trust.  2.3. The advancement of citizenship and community development by promoting opportunities for volunteers to support The Black Watch Regimental Trust and by supporting their workforce initiatives for young people.  2.4. Generally to provide any support to The Black Watch Regimental Trust necessary for the furtherance of its charitable objectives but only to the extent that such charitable objectives may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the objects set out in clauses 2.1 to 2.3 above.  | £35,866
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST PAUL'S, CHICHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1133785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133785)]<br>Regular public worship open to all. The provision of sacred space for personal prayer and contemplation. Pastoral work, including visiting the sick and bereaved. Teaching of christianity through sermons, courses and small groups. Taking of religious assemblies in schools. The provision of youth clubs with a christian ethos.  Promotion of christianity through the staging of events and meetings. | £295,886
