# Young children `BE114`

Young children is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

7,559 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.71% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(toddler|young child(ren)?|pre-?school)|under (5|fives?)|(4|four) year(s)|nursery|(0|1|2|3|4)+(-| to )+(2|3|4|5)+ year(s)?|play( |-)?group`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,154 | 1.62%
£10k - £100k | 2,492 | 3.54%
£100k - £250k | 2,476 | 11.04%
£250k - £500k | 707 | 6.39%
£500k - £1m | 306 | 4.39%
£1m - £10m | 181 | 1.97%
Over £10m | 23 | 1.02%
Total | 7,339 | 3.79%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 6,601 | 3.85%
ccni | 516 | 7.38%
oscr | 442 | 1.77%
Total | 7,559 | 3.71%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>BERKHAMSTED SCHOOLS GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [310630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310630)]<br>The education (including social and physical training) of boys and girls aged 3 -18, with a subsidiary nursery school for children from 5 months old. | £49,855,000
<strong>THE LONDON EARLY YEARS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [299686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299686)]<br>The London Early Years Foundation (LEYF) is one of the UK's largest charitable social enterprises with a social purpose of 'changing the world one child at a time'. We achieve our social purpose by giving London's children aged 0-5 years the best start in life through the highest quality Early Years Education and Care, especially those who otherwise may not be able to access or afford it. | £37,158,611
<strong>ONE YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [1102301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102301)]<br>THE PROVISION OF SOCIAL HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE, THE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE AND RESIDENTS.IN ADDITION WE OPERATE A WIDE RANGE OF CHILDRENS' CENTRES AND A FULL DAY NURSERY.OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED FOR THE COMMUNITY INCLUDE HEALTH, SPORTS AND RECREATION PROGRAMMES AND FACILITIES AND MEETING SPACES FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS. | £30,951,955
<strong>PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1096526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096526)]<br>A membership organisation for early years providers, our charitable purpose is to give children the best start in life by providing services that promote child development and support families especially those in deprived areas. This is achieved through early intervention and family services programmes, advising and representing our members and developing our own settings in deprived communities. | £26,850,000
<strong>Learning Disability Network London Limited</strong> [Charity number: [801081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801081)]<br>Providing quality services and creating new opportunities for people with learning disabilities and their families.  Our services include registered care, supported housing, community support, leisure activities, short breaks, a drop in, playschemes, a children and family centre, a pre-school nursery, play and youth services and a family support service. | £22,700,031
<strong>THE ALDENHAM FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [298140](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-298140)]<br>Trustee of the Aldenham School Charity and St Hilda's Educatioal Trust Ltd, charities engaged in secondary, primary and nursery education. | £22,616,296
<strong>ST SWITHUN'S SCHOOL (WINCHESTER)</strong> [Charity number: [307335](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307335)]<br>Provision of education for girls and young children of both sexes in accordance with the principles of the Church of England and the letting of facilities for both charitable and commercial purposes. | £19,839,604
<strong>The Edinburgh Academy</strong> [Charity number: [SC016999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016999)]<br>The objects of The Edinburgh Academy, in substitution for those set out in the Original Charter, shall be (1) the provision of education in Scotland and in particular at The Edinburgh Academy including all aspects of nursery, primary and secondary education and the provision of all facilities to achieve that. and (2) the furtherance of that and the following objects a contribution to the educational life of Scotland in its widest sense and the provision of benefits related to the purposes of The Edinburgh Academy for those who may not be enrolled pupils at the Edinburgh Academy | £19,755,155
<strong>WYCLIFFE COLLEGE (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [311714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311714)]<br>The Charity principally provides education in Stonehouse to boys and girls from the ages of 2 - 18 in its two schools, the Preparatory School, including a Nursery department, and the Senior School; it also runs holiday courses for British and overseas students. | £18,005,941


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF CHRIST CHURCH, WARLEY, ANGLICAN DIOCESE OF CHELMSFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1138758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138758)]<br>Preaching the good news of salvation through faith in Jesus.  Regular public worship open to all. The provision of sacred space for prayer. Visiting the sick and bereaved.  Children's activities with a Christian ethos.  Activities for senior citizens, parents and toddlers and other special needs groups.  If resources, grants are made. Christ Church Centre available for hire to the whole community | £122,961
<strong>GUILDEN SUTTON PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1000924](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000924)]<br>Guilden Sutton Pre-School provides daily sessions for children between the ages of 2 1/2 and 4. | £77,890
<strong>BIRLEY COMMUNITY PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1163022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163022)]<br>We offer high quality, affordable, inclusive and accessible childcare for children primarily under statutory school age.We work to enhance the atmosphere of our local community by creating a thriving family environment where children can continue to develop and learn, working in partnership with statutory, professional and voluntary groups to meet the needs of children and families. | £232,000
<strong>CYLCH MEITHRIN RHAEADR</strong> [Charity number: [1186086](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186086)]<br>Welsh Medium PreSchool with 3 plus funded places.Cylch Rhaeadr delivers foundation phase education for children between the ages of 2 and 4. | £72,869
<strong>Tullysaran Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI105860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105860)]<br>THE CENTRE IS USED FOR SOCIAL GATHERINGS, AND PROVIDES PEOPLE WITH AN OPPORTUNITY TO MEET OTHERS WHO WOULD OTHERWISE BE LEADING SEDENTARY LIFESTYLES; GIVES PEOPLE A SENSE OF OWNERSHIP AND PRIDE WITHIN THEIR COMMUNITY; IMPROVES HEALTH AND MENTAL WELL-BEING; CREATES A MORE POSITIVE ATTITUDE TO LIFE; CREATES A SENSE OF BELONGING AND FEELING SECURE AND VALUED WITHIN SOCIETY, ETC. SERVICES TO BE PROVIDED TO THE LOCAL COMMUNITY: CONSULT WITH LOCAL HEALTH BOARDS IN TERMS OF HAVING THEM DELIVER INFORMATION SESSIONS IN THE CENTRE ON HEALTH RELATED ISSUES; CONSULT WITH NI BLOOD TRANSFUSION RE USING THE FACILITY AS A CENTRE FOR GIVING BLOOD; CONSULT WITH LOCAL SPORTS DEVELOPMENT OFFICER IN TERMS OF DELIVERING RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND SETTING UP NEW CLUBS SUCH AS DANCE CLASSES, ETC. AND CATERING FOR THE VARIOUS UNDER-REPRESENTED GROUPS; *LINK IN WITH ARMAGH CITY AND DISTRICT COUNCIL (ACDC) ACTIVE COMMUNITIES COACH. ESTABLISH A NUMBER OF NEW CLUBS, FOR EXAMPLE: MOTHER AND TODDLER GROUP, ETC. * DRAMA CLUB; AND * DOWN SYNDROME AND SPECIAL NEEDS CLUB. | £29,964
<strong>Little Castle Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI103045](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103045)]<br>Little Castle playgroup offers a high standard of pre-school education to children ages 3-4. It prepares children for primary one through an education based curriculum. Children have the opportunity to make friends through play and sharing. Little Castle playgroup is a cross community playgroup and have children of different nationalities, cultures, ethnic minorities and children with disabilities. The playgroup is inclusive and respectful of each child and their family. | £35,152
<strong>MARGARET BUSHBY</strong> [Charity number: [306421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306421)]<br>Provision of land  for a pre-school building, and to support a local Cof E aided First School in Goring-by-Sea West Sussex. | £1,500
<strong>Sugar and Spice Early Years Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI100733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100733)]<br>We are an Early Years Centre that employ staff and provide early years provision five days a week for on average 26 preschool children of the Drumquin and neighbouring areas in Omagh District Council (ODC). The aim of the group is to enhance the development and education of children under the statutory school age, by encouraging parents/guardians to understand and provide for the needs of their children. We ensure the group offer opportunities for all the children regardless of religion, culture and race or means instigating and adhering to and furthering the aims of early years; Inclusion through diversity and respect for others. Play is the primary vehicle to promote the development of young children. We ensure all children are physically and psychologically healthy, eager to learn and respect those that are different. We provide support, education and development opportunities for families and for all children to reach their full potential. The activities we offer are via a broad and balanced curriculum covering all areas of the child's development: arts; language development; early mathematical experience; personal, social and emotional development; physical development and movement and the world around us. The children experience this in a holistic way through play, stories and songs and we have an excellent outdoor play area. We have outings during the year to places such as the library, animal farm, beach and nature walks. We also have a healthy eating policy and a buffet where the children can pour their own milk and make their own sandwiches. The children also graduate at the end of term and we have transition visits for the local Primary Schools. Our activities are focused very much around the needs of the children and parents; and staff has a positive attitude towards each child's development. Often playgroup is the children's first interaction with others and an introduction to routine so we see the Playgroup as an important part of the community. | £70,152
<strong>BOWERHAM SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1209999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209999)]<br>The Bowerham School Foundation supports the learning of pupils of Bowerham Primary and Nursery School by providing: food through a free-to-use breakfast club; learning support materials and equipment for those who need them but cannot afford them; financial grants for school trips and clubs where a pupil's financial situation would otherwise prevent attendance. | £1,224
<strong>For Bute</strong> [Charity number: [SC044153](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044153)]<br>The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: to advance citizenship and community development through encouragement of voluntary activity for the benefit of the community, both by offering opportunities directly, such as working in the For Bute community shop and participating in environmental improvement projects and by financially supporting other organizations which encourage voluntary activity for the benefit of the community, and through targeted improvement of the local environment with a view to encouraging civic responsibility. to advance the arts, heritage, culture and science through financially supporting community groups that work to advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. through participating in and supporting events on Bute, such as the jazz festival, folk festival, highland games, ?Eat Bute? festival and others, and through working directly on a small scale to restore sites of local importance, such as overgrown wells, public seating areas and mill streams, and their subsequent promotion. to advance environmental protection and improvement through, for example, constructing butterfly gardens, wildlife ponds and wildflower meadows. to advance education through financially supporting community education groups on Bute, and through development of public areas in such a way as to raise awareness of biodiversity and environmental issues. to relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship  or other disadvantage through financially supporting community groups that provide such relief, such as lunch clubs for the elderly, community transport, mother and toddlers groups and others, and through the work of the For Bute community shop passing on donated goods at a reasonable cost.?   | £72,787
