# Women `BE113`

Women is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

9,525 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.69% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(wom[ae]n'?s?|widows?|girl'?s?|mum'?s?|ladies|females?|abort\w*|natal|pregnancy|maternity|sister(s)?|spinsters?)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b(m[ae]n and|and m[ae]n|boys and|and boys)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,602 | 6.47%
£10k - £100k | 2,455 | 3.50%
£100k - £250k | 790 | 3.54%
£250k - £500k | 428 | 3.93%
£1m - £10m | 388 | 4.26%
£500k - £1m | 307 | 4.47%
Over £10m | 95 | 4.26%
Total | 9,065 | 4.70%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 7,083 | 4.14%
oscr | 1,994 | 8.04%
ccni | 448 | 6.22%
Total | 9,525 | 4.69%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE GIRLS' DAY SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [306983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306983)]<br>To remain at the forefront of education, extend excellence and innovation in dynamic educationalsettings and maintain our leadership in the education of young people, principally women. | £340,388,000
<strong>MSI REPRODUCTIVE CHOICES</strong> [Charity number: [265543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265543)]<br>MSI Reproductive Choices is one of the world's leading providers of sexual and reproductive healthcare. We believe that everyone should have the right to choose. From contraception to safe abortion and life-saving post- abortion care, we are committed to delivering compassionate, high- quality services. Our 9,000 team members work across 37 countries, reaching over 35,000 women each day. | £309,542,000
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £235,558,118
<strong>THE MINES ADVISORY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1083008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083008)]<br>Our vision is a safe & secure future for men,women & children affected by armed violence & conflict.MAG assists people through mine action & Arms Management & Destruction.We seek to address the human impact of landmines,cluster munitions & ERW & we work to reduce the risk & impact of unplanned explosions at munitions sites & the risk of weapons & munitions being diverted to the illicit arms trade. | £99,273,000
<strong>CAMFED INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1029161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029161)]<br>Camfed tackles poverty and inequality by supporting girls to go to school and succeed, and empowering young women to step up as leaders of change. Camfed invests in girls and women in the poorest rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa, where girls face acute disadvantage. and where their empowerment is now transforming communities. | £84,638,714
<strong>BRITISH PREGNANCY ADVISORY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [289145](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289145)]<br>Supporting reproductive choice by advocating and providing high quality, affordable services to prevent or end unwanted pregnancy with contraception or by abortion | £64,386,948
<strong>PLAN INTERNATIONAL UK</strong> [Charity number: [276035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276035)]<br>Plan International UK is a global children's charity. We strive to advance children's rights and equality for girls all over the world. We work to give every child the same chance in life by giving children and their communities access to education, healthcare, clean water and more. And if disaster strikes we are there to protect children to keep them learning and help them recover. | £61,680,000
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £60,980,930
<strong>HESTIA HOUSING AND SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [294555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294555)]<br>Hestia delivers high quality & empowering housing, support, protection & care services in partnership with service users & local communities in 22 London boroughs. Hestia provides services to people with mental health needs, physical disability, substance misusers, offenders, women & children fleeing domestic abuse, older & young people, personal budget holders & other wider community groups. | £56,783,162
<strong>KING EDWARD VII'S HOSPITAL (SISTER AGNES)</strong> [Charity number: [208944](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-208944)]<br>The objective of the charity are:- To operate an acute hospital. To provide the highest standards of patient care. To provide treatment at preferential rates to service patients serving or retired and their spouses. The aim of the council is to operate a hospital that is open to any member of the public and which will provide quality of care and cleanliness that contribute to their early recovery. | £44,543,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHALTON WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1022163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1022163)]<br>Women's group meeting for the purpose of gaining information from guest speakers, social support and charitable works. | £665
<strong>POSITIVE FUTURES GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1120383](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120383)]<br>Educational Sponsorship - creating opportunities for young people through the provision of scholarships where poverty would otherwise force them to abandon their studies. Girlz Empowered -  empowering girls to make a successful transition from childhood to adulthood. EXCEL -a personal development programme for young men.Parenting workshopsYouth Leaders training | £22,253
<strong>BILLERICAY WICKFORD BASILDON MUSLIM CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1152179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152179)]<br>run prayer sessions, supplementary and home work tuition classes, pensioner club for local elderly people, adult education class for local BME people, women education classes for local BME women. | £18,650
<strong>Dromore Non-Subscribing Presbyterian Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI101289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101289)]<br>Our Church meets weekly for the public worship of God. The minister, elders and members of the congregation promote the Christian faith within the local community, offering pastoral care to those in need within the Church family and beyond, not least to the sick and lonely. We promote the maintenance of good community relations through our work with other Church denominations. There is a strong Sunday School providing youth involvement, a strong Women's League and various Church clubs including Flower Arranging, Bowls, Pilates, Parents and Toddlers group, Bible Class and Communion classes. | £101,477
<strong>SOCIETY OF THE SACRED CROSS</strong> [Charity number: [1135334](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135334)]<br>The Society provides and maintains a Retreat/Guest house which is open to anyone whether Christian or not.Educational groups visit for days or weekends and occasional residential retreats are offered.The sisters spend two hours each day in personal prayer and sixteen and a half hours each week in public worship.  | £335,518
<strong>Tell Romania</strong> [Charity number: [NI105779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105779)]<br>Advancement of the Christian Religion Through the Charity, Dr Hamilton Moore (Trustee) provides teaching in Emanuel University and preaching in village Churches, directly advancing the Christian religion. The Charity also provides funding and support to Church projects that benefit the Christian Religion and is involved in Christian radio broadcasts. The ministry has also expanded to teaching and providing pastoral support for Emanuel Hospice Home Care team, which provides loving care for terminally ill children and adults. Providing Humanitarian Aid Through donations and fundraising, the Charity provides vital medical equipment and dental equipment to many hospitals, Bethesda Medical Centre and to Felix Orphan Community. The Charity also provides consumables to Emanuel Hospice and humanitarian aid for Roma communities. The Charity also works in partnership with Child Life Romania assisting in the support of a Child Life Specialist to work in the neonatal unit of the maternity hospital in Oradea. Through donations and funding the Charity also supplies furniture, bedding and recreational equipment for Racatau Retreat Centre, Betel Baptist Church, Cluj, and support for Preventis Drug Addiction Centre, Cluj, Ichobed Centre in Suceava and Casa Grace Ministry. The Charity is preparing for the departure of a 45ft lorry leaving in October 2016 carrying medical equipment, school equipment and clothing for those who benefit from its purpose. The charity also helps to fund parcels of aid and food for terminally ill patients and has provided over £6,000 worth of funding for a feeding program for these people who would not be able to fund this themselves.Through donations, Tell Romania is also supporting the bone marrow treatment of a patient through 2016 and 2017 who would be unable to survive without this assistance. | £79,147
<strong>THE BRIDGE BATTERSEA</strong> [Charity number: [1147543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147543)]<br>The Bridge Battersea operates as a Christian community centre in Battersea, undertaking a number of charitable activities.  Activities include a Sunday church service, midweek Bible studies for local residents and community outreach events such as Mums & Toddlers group, monthly youth club and monthly Men's breakfast. | £180,677
<strong>CHIVENOR MILITARY LADIES CHOIR</strong> [Charity number: [1184143](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184143)]<br>A choir consisting of ladies associated with the military community in and around North Devon.  The purpose of the Choir is to provide welfare support through singing and performing to its members.  In addition the Choir supports local charities in their own fundraising efforts by performances and appearances when requested. | £29,999
<strong>2nd Auchterarder Rainbow Unit</strong> [Charity number: [SC047863](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047863)]<br>Promoting the instruction of girls of all classes in the principles of discipline, loyalty and good citizenship | £2,778
<strong>LONDON ACADEMY FOR LEARNING</strong> [Charity number: [1147655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147655)]<br>1.We have provided a safe and secure location to support children in their studies including English, Maths, Arabic and Bengali.2.A range of educational and recreational activities / experiences for women and their families others geared towards enhancing their life experiences3.We have provided opportunities for individuals to gain work experience by working with local companies. | £290,021
