# Racial; ethnic or national communities `BE111`

Racial; ethnic or national communities is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) category.

715 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.35% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(B\.?(A\.?)?M\.?E|racism|ethnic minorit(ies|y)|multi[\W ]+ethnic|black british)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 248 | 0.35%
£10k - £100k | 195 | 0.28%
£100k - £250k | 98 | 0.44%
£250k - £500k | 60 | 0.54%
£1m - £10m | 33 | 0.36%
£500k - £1m | 32 | 0.46%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.09%
Total | 668 | 0.35%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 522 | 0.30%
oscr | 123 | 0.49%
ccni | 70 | 1.00%
Total | 715 | 0.35%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £44,923,716
<strong>Community Security Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043612)]<br>1.1 The objects of the Charity shall be: 1.1.1 to promote good race relations between the Jewish community and other members of society by working towards the elimination of racism in the form of anti-Semitism. 1.1.2 to promote the efficiency of the police within the community at large and the promotion of good citizenship and greater public participation in the prevention of crime with particular reference to the maintenance of public order and racially motivated especially anti-Semitic crime. 1.1.3 to relieve the victims of racial or religious harassment and especially anti-Semitic harassment who are in need or who have suffered hardship or distress. 1.1.4 to promote research into racism and anti-Semitism and to publish the useful results of such research and otherwise to promote public education about racism and anti-Semitism. 1.1.5 Subject to clause 1.3 to promote and support such other purposes as are charitable in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, as the Trustees may from time to time think fit.   | £28,207,171
<strong>StreetGames UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC046149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046149)]<br>The Company is established for charitable purposes only and the objects of the company are: (a) The promotion of community participation in recreational activities, including sport, social, cultural and artistic activities to improve the health, well-being and conditions of life of those, particularly children and young people, living mainly in areas of social and economic deprivation by the following means I. The provision, development, management and funding of facilities for recreational activities. II. The provision of assistance in the provision of recreational and social facilities for the public at large and/or those who, by reasons of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances have need of such facilities. III. The provision of financial and other assistance, to individuals, teams, clubs, particularly children and young people, to pursue sport, and other recreational activities. Such assistance to include, but not be limited to, bursaries, help towards travel, equipment, employment, and other costs. IV. The advancement of education, training and retraining, particularly, but not exclusively, among children, young people, low skilled, and unemployed people. (b) The promotion of community cohesion and anti-racism through sport and physical activity. (c) The promotion of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined by the Trustees as being in fulfilment of the Charity’s objects. Throughout these Memorandum and Articles of Association 'charitable' means charitable in accordance with the law of England and Wales provided that it will not include any purpose which is not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and/or section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008. | £8,464,173
<strong>CHELSEA FC FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1129723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129723)]<br>Chelsea FC Foundation is the official charity affiliated to and supported by Chelsea Football Club, providing (i) sports coaching and facilities for participation in football, other healthy sports and recreation; (ii) educational services, including social inclusion and anti-racism projects; (iii) support for other charitable initiatives, including the environment and welfare of children. | £4,525,967
<strong>POLICY EXCHANGE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1096300](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096300)]<br>Policy Exchange is one of the UK's leading market-oriented think tanks and exists to develop and promote new policy ideas. It works in partnership with prominent academics and other experts to conduct major studies and events on a wide range of topical issues including education, economy, environment, crime & justice, security, governance, technology, social  and ethnic minority issues. | £4,316,531
<strong>SPONSORS FOR EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1097832](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097832)]<br>Sponsors for Educational Opportunity (SEO) London is a not-for-profit organisation focused on improving access into the most competitive professions from under-represented ethnic minority backgrounds through a comprehensive training, mentoring and networking programme designed to improve their chances of securing graduate careers with the UK's most impressive graduate employers. | £4,284,395
<strong>Volunteer Now</strong> [Charity number: [NI101309](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101309)]<br>Volunteer Now: • Promotes and provides information about volunteer involvement and the benefits of volunteering; • Links individuals who want to volunteer with volunteer opportunities; • Provides information, training and support to organisations to develop capacity, skills and good practice in relation to the involvement and management of volunteers; • Facilitates and seeks to improve the participation by groups and individuals who tend to be under represented in volunteering within Northern Ireland e.g. young people, older people, people with a disability; people from ethnic minority communities; • Undertakes research and provides evidence of volunteering including identifying emerging issues and trends; • Develops and delivers opportunities, innovative models and projects that enable individuals to respond to need and become involved as active citizens in their community; • Collaborates with others to recognise, enhance and increase volunteering. | £3,691,482
<strong>SHUMEI EIKO LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1002647](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002647)]<br>The principal objects and activities of the charity, as set out in the Memorandum and Articles of Association,are to advance the education of young persons and mature students and in particular,but without prejudice to,persons of Japanese origin and to advance the education of the public in all aspects of Japanese culture. | £3,470,000
<strong>Irish FA Foundation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106229](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106229)]<br>Our activities promote foster and develop football for all in Northern Ireland, creating a fun, safe and inclusive culture which inspires a life long love of the game. Creating opportunities, inspiring change and helping people fulfil their potential on and off the pitch. Serving the community through football and education. We strive to work with all individuals and groups and have developed a range of initiatives and programmes which support these beneficiaries. This leads to increased social inclusion, improved health, community integration and education and career opportunities. We promote and hold activities such as youth football camps, football for all programmes, anti racism and anti sectarian workshops, educational tours, disability and homeless football programmes and related career pathways. These activities help to improve the general health, well being and enhance the lives of all participants. Financial and economic deprivation is reduced for the beneficiaries through access to services and interventions. Beneficiaries can be empowered through increased education and awareness of the role they can play within mainstream society. This leads to more active and healthy lives. The organisation pursues opportunities to raise awareness and promote equality through football in the furtherance of a more peaceful and cohesive society. | £3,032,120
<strong>The Nerve Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI103703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103703)]<br>The Nerve Centre was established as a focal point for youth culture in Derry/Londonderry and is considered one of the UK’s most dynamic and innovative creative arts and education centres. By bringing popular music, film, video, animation and digital media together under one roof, the Nerve Centre promotes creative collaboration and fusion between artists and provides a cultural outlet for many young people. Housed in a state-of-the-art building comprising music venue, cinema, edit suites, rehearsal and recording studios, and education & training facilities, the Nerve Centre currently has over 100,000 people benefiting from its various events, programmes and projects. The Nerve Centre also provides a comprehensive annual programme of performances, exhibitions, education, training and project based work in music, culture, cinema,visual art, digital media and film education. This includes the Foyle Film Festival, Intercultural & Anti-racism Festival, after schools FILMCLUB, and creative learning centres. The Nerve Centre has a national and International reputation for it’s work. The organisation has won a variety of awards including Training and Education awards. | £2,754,392


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WREXHAM AFC FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1130924](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130924)]<br>OUR CHARITY PROMOTES WREXHAM FC ACROSS NORTH WALES AND PROVIDES CORE PROGRAMMES IN SCHOOLS AND TO LOCAL COMMUNITY GROUPS, IT HAS WORKED WITH SHOW RACISM THE RED CARD AND THE PRINCES TRUST OVER THE PAST TWELVE MONTHS AND THE OVERALL AIM FOR THE FOUNDATION IS TO PROVIDE MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE COMMUNITIES OF NORTH WALES TO ENGAGE WITH WREXHAM FOOTBALL CLUB. | £452,464
<strong>AANCHAL WOMEN'S AID LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1113180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113180)]<br>The companys objects and principal activities are to: To provide support, assistance and advice to women and children who have experienced or who are experiencing domestic violence; andThe advancement of education and other charitable purposes which help and benefit the community. | £553,580
<strong>Scottish Councils of Justice, Peace and Community Integration</strong> [Charity number: [SC041446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041446)]<br>The company's objects are: (1) To facilitate fairness, peace and harmony by reconciliation, mediation or adjudication of misunderstandings, disagreements, disputes or conflicts arising between individuals, businesses, family members, communities, public, private or voluntary organisations (2) To facilitate justice for individuals and the community by assisting with effective representation where there are matters affecting their lawful interests as a result of direct, indirect or hidden discrimination or affirmative action, inequality or prejudice at national, regional or local Government level (3)  To promote, encourage and strengthen and protect the values of fairness, integrity and trust within communities and work places for the purposes of peace, harmony and tranquillity.  (4)  To maintain close ties with public, private and voluntary sector organisations, traders and small businesses with a view to promote integration between professionals and non-professionals, secular and non-secular groups, different faiths, ethnic groups, political groups and cultures and promote respect for equality and equal opportunities for all and appreciation of and respect for others.  (5)  To set up learning, teaching, interpreting, translation and similar educational facilities relative to ethnic origin languages (eg Bangla, Urdhu, Arabic, Hindi etc) for the benefit of the community.  (6)  To support the victims of violence and the reduction of anit-social behaviours, drug dealing, misuse of alcohol and youth disorder in order to improve the community.  (7)   To coordinate meetings, seminars, conferences, training and any other similar event to promote the creation of better comunity relations and a better society  (8)  To raise funds to (i) facilitate recreational environments (such as indoor and outdoor game/sports for youth and adults. and (ii) support the health, educational and cultural needs of the ethnic minority for the purpose of advancing citizenship and community develo | 
<strong>SUNDERLAND LIGHTHOUSE COMMUNITY LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1191512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191512)]<br>As a charity provide the following services-1. Educational support services- we run free after school session to improve the children from BAME background. 2. Mental health workshop- we run various mental health workshop to increase the awareness of mental health issues and discuss on this  topic.3. Family Fun Day in Bank Holidays4.  Activities to keep the Park and street cleaning etc. | £145,878
<strong>SURMA ISLAMIC EDUCATION CENTRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1135305](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135305)]<br>We provide Islamic education to the local Black Asian Minority Ethnic Community (BAME) living in small heath and surounding area, Birmingham, West Midlands. We also provide IAG to the BAME community to those who are unemployed, and in receipt of welfare benefits.We have place of worship and we carry out 5 times a day prayer 7 days a week. | £39,019
<strong>ASMA COMMUNITY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1201486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201486)]<br>Asma Community Group is a UK registered charity that is dedicated to helping local communities through education. With a particular focus on disadvantaged children and ethnic minorities, the group aims to provide access to education and training opportunities that can help people improve their lives and achieve their goals. | £33,527
<strong>Wah Hep Chinese Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI101077](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101077)]<br>• Vital information will be provided to the local ethnic minorities and wider community through the Multi-Cultural Centre. A Chinese library facility is provided. • Provide anti-racism & equality training for wider community & local ethnic minorities. • The Information Centre will co-ordinate interpreting & health advocacy services & provide confidential advice & support on a range of issues relating to multi-statutory agencies. • Providing Chinese Language classes, Arabic classes, after-school clubs & outreach to wider community playgroups & youth clubs. • BME youth centre & out of school activities to help young people who are currently in, or have recently left, the education system to find courses and training programmes. • Befriending Service will provide home visits for new migrants, the disabled & elderly. • Workshops, clinics & seminars will provide information about statutory services such Health, • Housing & Social Security Agencies. • The centre will provide a meeting place for the Oi Wah Woman’s Group, adult English classes, • the Chinese youth club and the Chinese 50+ ageing well group. • Multi-ethnic traditional cultural festivals will be held in the Southern Board Area. • We will continue to liaise with local statutory bodies and the PSNI to address & monitor levels of racial incidents. • Wah Hep Mother & Toddler Group will provide opportunity for young mothers & toddlers to • meet & socialise in a safe & secure environment. • Summer Scheme for children, families & young people. | £113,014
<strong>Nigerian Lawyers in Scotland SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC054678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054678)]<br>a. The advancement of education by supporting Nigerian-trained or Nigerian-affiliated legal professionals in Scotland through mentoring, career development, and academic collaboration.  b. The advancement of equality and diversity by promoting the interests and representation of ethnic minority lawyers in Scottish legal institutions.  c. The advancement of citizenship and community development by encouraging civic engagement, legal awareness, and social integration within the Nigerian and wider Scottish community. | 
<strong>ST WERBURGHS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1074495](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074495)]<br>SWCA manages the St Werburghs Community Centre and promotes the benefit and social welfare of the local people in a common effort to advance health, education and good relationships. SWCA serves the communities of Inner City wards, which have the highest percentage of BME residents in Bristol and are ranked amongst the most deprived 10% nationally in terms of multiple deprivation. | £495,036
<strong>Fair Justice System for Scotland Group SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052329](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052329)]<br>The organization's main aims and objectives are as outlined below:   - To promote equality and diversity in Scottish society through representative employment of Black ethnic minority communities into the main arms of the justice system in Scotland.   - To lobby for the appointment of Black minority ethnic people to the management committees, boards, and other administrative and operational structures of the main arms of the justice system in Scotland.   - To thrive to achieve fair representation across the entire sector and in all other aspects of the justice system such as legal representation, training, translation, and general treatment of those going through the legal system.   - To eliminate any forms of  discrimination in Scottish society through raising awareness among ethnic minority communities of the functioning of the justice delivery process in Scotland.   - To provide education for ethnic minority communities and their internment into the profession and their general inclusion into the sector so as a way of promoting racial harmony and community cohesion.   - To promote human rights through the eradication of some of the disadvantages faced by ethnic minority communities while trying to access professional legal services or while going through the court process, tribunals, or any other judicial processes requiring such support.   - To promote the education and create training opportunities for ethnic minority communities through advocating for their inclusion into the legal profession in Scotland to ensure fair and equal representation. | £78,880
