# Widows; widowers and orphans `BE112`

Widows; widowers and orphans is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](/data/ukcat/BE) category.

2,164 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(widow(s|ed)?|widowers?|orphan(s|ed)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 931 | 1.12%
£10k - £100k | 761 | 1.17%
£100k - £250k | 159 | 0.82%
£250k - £500k | 90 | 0.99%
£1m - £10m | 54 | 0.68%
£500k - £1m | 36 | 0.62%
Over £10m | 18 | 0.97%
Total | 2,049 | 1.07%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,787 | 1.06%
oscr | 308 | 1.21%
ccni | 69 | 0.97%
Total | 2,164 | 1.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £182,941,236
<strong>HUMAN APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1154288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154288)]<br>Human Appeal changed its legal structure from a Trust to a Charitable Company (No:1154288). The historical information is available on Charity Commission under (previous Charity Number: 1005733) We aim to provide a holistic approach to humanitarian relief and development:1. Emergency & relief programmes2. Sustainable development3. Orphans programmes4. Social programmes. | £35,518,275
<strong>Mary's Meals International Organisation</strong> [Charity number: [SC045223](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045223)]<br>(a) To provide a daily meal, in a place of education, for children in the world's poorest communities. (b) To provide relief for those suffering, in any part of the world, as a result of humanitarian, crises or poverty, to help people escape poverty and to provide care for orphaned, abandoned and vulnerable children and to work for the prevention thereof. (c) To raise awareness worldwide of poverty issues through education and. (d) To assist and support the work of other organisations, financially or otherwise, in particular members of the Mary's Meals network throughout the world, the objects of which would be considered to be Charitable Purposes and similar in nature to these objects.  | £33,722,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MEDICAL FOUNDATION OF EPSOM COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [312046](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312046)]<br>(1) To provide pensions for registered medical practitioners of the UK and their widows or widowers in reduced circumstances. (2) To provide generally for the advancement of education by the provision of a school. (3) To provide occasional financial assistance for registered medical practitioners of the UK and their widows or widowers and children in reduced circumstances. | £29,266,000
<strong>Blind Veterans UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039411)]<br>3.1 To provide for the medical or surgical treatment, re-education, training in one or more trade or trades, settlement and permanent welfare of.- 3.1.1 Members or former members of the armed forces both men and women blinded from whatever cause whether or not connected in any way with service in the armed forces. 3.1.2 Other persons both men and women not being members or, former members of the armed forces blinded in or as a consequence of any war or warlike operations in which the forces of the Crown may be at any time engaged or any service connected with or subsidiary to such war or warlike operations or by or as a consequence of enemy action in the course of any such war or warlike operations (all such persons being hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiaries') and so that for the purposes of this memorandum the word 'blinded' shall extend to all cases in which the sight has been so impaired that special care and training are required and all cases in which the sight is endangered so long as the cause of the danger continues. 3.2 To provide allowances or other assistance for any wife widow husband widower child or dependant of a Beneficiary who may be in need of assistance or any person who shall have kept house for or nursed or otherwise rendered exceptional service to or have been dependent upon a Beneficiary and may after the death of such Beneficiary be in need of assistance. | £28,827,000
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £27,676,245
<strong>The Ahmadiyya Muslim Association United Kingdom</strong> [Charity number: [SC042131](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042131)]<br>(a) The propagation of Islam as expounded by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad of Qadian, the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement and the Khalifatul Masih and generally to promote the comparative study of religion in any or all parts of the world. (b) The advancement of education among the members of the Association and such other persons as the Managing Committee of the Association may from time to time determine. (c) The provision, as far as possible, of maintenance of indigent persons, orphans and widows and for such other persons as are unable by reason of some physical or other infirmity or handicap to maintain themselves anywhere in the world. (d) The relief of poverty, need, hardship or distress in any or all parts of the world. | £26,206,739
<strong>The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC038109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038109)]<br>(a) the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the War Memorial known as the RAF Memorial situated at the Victoria Embankment, London. and b) The relief and assistance by all available means of all or any of thc following classes of beneficiaries who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise, namely:- all persons of all ranks who are or have or shall have been at any time or shall be at any time members of the Royal Air Force, the Royal I Auxiliary Air Force, the Royal Air Force Reserves, the Women's I Royal Air Force or the Air Force or Auxiliary Air Force of any present  or former colony dominion or dependent territory of Great Britain or members of any former organisation the place of which has I substantially been taken by the said organisations or any of them, or I members of any future organisations which hereafter shall substantially take the place of the said organisations or any of them. and  (ii) all persons who shall at any time have been or be widows, widowers, children or other dependants of any of the persons above referred to. | £25,528,000
<strong>THE LONDON ORPHAN ASYLUM (REED'S SCHOOL)</strong> [Charity number: [312008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312008)]<br>To provide education in Cobham for boys from the ages of 11 - 18, and girls in the Sixth Form.  The objects of the Foundation, as set down in the Act and Constitution, are to advance the education of boys or girls who have lost one or both parents through death, divorce, or other family disaster, and whose home life, as a result, is unsatisfactory, unhappy or abnormal. | £20,765,000
<strong>Mary's Meals</strong> [Charity number: [SC022140](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022140)]<br>The Company's objects are:  (i) (a) To provide a daily meal, in a place of education, for children in the world's poorest communities. (b) To provide relief for those suffering, in any part of the world, as a result of humanitarian crises or poverty, to help people escape poverty and to provide care for orphaned, abandoned and vulnerable children. (c) To raise awareness in the UK and worldwide of poverty issues through education | £18,437,053


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Jengana Association Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI107212](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107212)]<br>Take teams from N.I. to do voluntary work among the poor in Nairobi - usually about 20-25 in team Run health clinics in slum schools - provide worming medication, ringworm cream etc and basic advice Work alongside slum school to support teachers and pupils. No government funding for these schools so in real need of help. We run daily feeding programme for 250 children at this school - one meal daily Sponsor individuals and groups by paying school fees and visiting poorest homes with food packages Help with basic teacher training for teachers in slum schiools Support and part-fund project in Kibera slum set up to look after group of extremely needy families - we have sponsors in NI who pay monthly to sponsor these chn to attend school. Support a new programme to enable more slum dwellers to access college education Provide support for streetboys' rehabilitation centre - raising extra funds so that boys can be sent to schools which suit their needs, some more vocational, some more academic. Some have won scholarships to excellent schools. Renovate and repair school buildings in slums - buy materials and carry out the work. Build small houses in more rural areas for widows - identified to us by local pastors Run an annual Kids' Club to share Biblical stories and principles - up to 200 chn attend and participate enthusiastically. Build a new children's home which is now in operation and is staffed by Kenyans. All those going on our teams raise funds for this work - much of which is now ongoing throughout the year, not only when we visit in the summer. | 
<strong>GLOBAL POVERTY RELIEF</strong> [Charity number: [1167726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167726)]<br>THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY, OR FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OF ORPHANS, WIDOWS AND OTHER PEOPLE IN NEED, ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD BY PROVIDING, ASSISTING AND ADVISING IN THE PROVISION OF FOOD, HOUSING, EDUCATION AND HEALTH-CARE PROJECTS. | £28,909
<strong>The Provincial Grand Lodge of Glasgow Benevolent and Annuity and Charity Funds</strong> [Charity number: [SC014441](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC014441)]<br>The benevolent Fund shall be devoted solely to the relief of worthy poor and distressed Brethren, widows, children, or parents of deceased brethren, and shall not be appropriated to any other purpose. but nothing herein shall prevent casual relief being granted. | £37,393
<strong>ORPHAN AID MALAWI</strong> [Charity number: [1126332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126332)]<br>Orphan Aid Malawi has simple aims: survive, learn, earn we will be a link between training and qualified clinicians who can donate time in clinics and hospitals in Malawi. We will sponsor AIDS orphans in boarding secondary schools throughout Malawi to help them become economically independent adults with reasonable employment opportunities from mining, manufacturing, fishing, farming or tourism | 
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Banchory & District Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC010844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010844)]<br>4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £36,832
<strong>CHARITY OF WILLIAM BRERETON FOR THE POOR</strong> [Charity number: [267638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-267638)]<br>Two almshouses provided for widows of the village of Felthorpe. | £2,500
<strong>I AM WHO I AM</strong> [Charity number: [1115399](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115399)]<br>Feeding the street people and families living under the proverity line, elderly,widows. | 
<strong>SKEGNESS MASONIC BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1014500](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014500)]<br>The main object of the fund is the relief of such poor and distressed Brother Masons and their poor and distressed widows and children or for the benefit of such Masonic Charities or other charitable institutions, societies and objects as they shall in their absolute discretion from time to time direct. | £8,789
<strong>IYEREKHU ST PAUL'S MISSION SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1187887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187887)]<br>The prevention or relief of poverty, and the provision of education, to orphaned and abandoned children in the township of Iyerekhu Nigeria, by making grants of money to provide items, services, and facilities to St Paul's Catholic School, Iyerekhu. Funds are raised primarily from the catholic community in the parish of St Gregory the Great, Stratford-upon-Avon. | £18,567
<strong>Miraas Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052273)]<br>3 The organisation’s purposes are: (a) the prevention or relief of poverty- by providing monthly food packs containing essential items to individuals in need and/or charities, or other organisations working to prevent or relieve poverty. providing help in education with a major focus on relieving children put into labour to support families, along with vocational training to help set up cottage industries for women who are widowed, divorced, or having dependents with no bread winner (b) the saving of lives- by providing financial and administrative assistance to individuals in need of emergency and lifesaving procedures with a focus on maternity cases and those injured in accidents. (c) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage- by providing monthly food packages for individuals/families that are unable to provide for themselves due to ill-health and disability. For those with financial difficulty we will help with vocational training and help with employment opportunities to enable a fresh ‘start’. | 
