# People with disabilities `BE200`

People with disabilities is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) categoryand the People with disabilities subcategory.

13,565 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 6.70% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(disabilit(y|ies)|disabled|wheelchairs?|brain injur(y|ies)?|special needs|learning difficulties|disabled .*(people|person|children)s?|physically disadvantaged|autis(tic|m)|down syndrome|deaf|blind|visually impaired|handicapped)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,309 | 5.87%
£10k - £100k | 3,842 | 5.55%
£100k - £250k | 1,452 | 6.85%
£250k - £500k | 935 | 9.05%
£500k - £1m | 610 | 9.51%
£1m - £10m | 1,040 | 11.86%
Over £10m | 312 | 14.61%
Total | 12,500 | 6.53%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 9,523 | 5.58%
oscr | 3,551 | 14.44%
ccni | 491 | 6.81%
Total | 13,565 | 6.70%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind</strong> [Charity number: [SC038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038110)]<br>'	To take or promote measures for the prevention and cure of blindness in the countries and territories specified under article 4 of this our charter and for the education, rehabilitation, training and employment of the blind in those countries and territories and '	To foster collaboration among organisations concerned with blindness and its prevention and to promote and where appropriate, to participate in national, regional and international activities likely to prevent blindness and benefit the blind in any part of the world. | £338,159,000
<strong>ROYAL COMMONWEALTH SOCIETY FOR THE BLIND</strong> [Charity number: [207544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207544)]<br>Seventy five per cent of blindness in the world is either avoidable or treatable. Sightsavers works with partners in developing countries to eliminate avoidable blindness and promote equality of opportunity for disabled people. Our work alleviates poverty among poor and marginalised communities and thus helps to realise the internationally accepted Millenium Development Goals. | £337,945,000
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £326,134,000
<strong>THE SHAW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287785)]<br>Shaw Trust provides services to people who are disabled or otherwise disadvantaged, principally to help them find employment or to develop work and independence skills. | £302,005,000
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £302,005,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £249,600,000
<strong>Wheatley Homes Glasgow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC034054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034054)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £246,252,000
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £217,813,703
<strong>Royal Mencap Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC041079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041079)]<br>‘The charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to advancing the health, education and the well-being of people with a learning disability and their families and carers (the beneficiaries) by providing, procuring or facilitating care, services and facilities and to advance equality and diversity for people with a learning disability.’ | £216,112,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £174,925,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CREATING TOMORROW COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [1209242](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209242)]<br>Creating Tomorrow College is an employability college for young people aged up to 25 who have learning disabilities. It provides employability skills programmes, functional skills programmes, work experience, supported internships and inclusive apprenticeship programmes. | 
<strong>THE WHIRLWIND CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1119576](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119576)]<br>To enhance the potential for a positive life experience for the young, disadvantaged, at risk and disabled (and others whose opportunities are constrained by hardship) particularly through the medium of maritime activities and outdoor pursuits; in addition to develop and support marine environmental education and marine conservation initiatives. | £327,909
<strong>HOPE IN THE VALLEY GROUP RIDING DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1074384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074384)]<br>ALL FOR PHYSICALLY DISABLED CHILDREN BETWEEN THE AGES OF 3 & 16 HORSE RIDING BOTH IN AN INDOOR SCHOOL AND OUT IN THE COUNTRYSIDEGROOMING AND BATHING PONIESLEARNING ABOUT HORSE CARE AND IDENTIFYING THE PARTS OF A HORSE.COMPETING IN RIDING FOR THE DISABLED GROUP COMPETITIONS REGIONALLY AND NATIONALLYDRAWING AND DOING QUIZZES ABOUT HORSESPARTICIPATING IN ARTS AND CRAFTS COMPETITION | £5,888
<strong>Arrochar & Tarbet Community Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC031567](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC031567)]<br>(a) To relieve poverty among those residents of Arrochar, Tarbet, Succoth, upper Loch Long and upper Loch Lomondside which is the general area and boundaries covered by the locally elected Community Council for Arrochar and Tarbet. (The Operating Area).  (b) To relieve the needs of those in the community who are disadvantaged by reason of their rural isolation in such ways as are charitable in law, including the young, unemployed, elderly, those suffering from mental and/or physical disability, illness or impairment.  (c) To provide in the interests of social welfare within the Operating Area facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation available to the public at large with a view to improving their conditions of life.  (d) To advance education particularly, but not exclusively, amongst unemployed people through the provision of various forms of educational opportunities thereby contributing to the life-long learning and development of such individuals.  (e) To promote training skills and opportunities of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents in the Operating Area to obtain gainful employment.  (f) To promote, facilitate and support other schemes and projects of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area.  (g) To preserve, restore and improve the environment in and around the Operating Area through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and rural regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use.  (h) To promote for the public | £114,648
<strong>Down and Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £20,688,000
<strong>Pendle Ladies Choir</strong> [Charity number: [1101371](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1101371)]<br>The choir is open to ladies over the age of sixteen regardless of culture. The choir participates in festivals throughout the country promoting choral activities to a wide audience. The choir also gives concerts throughout the year to the benefit of many local churches and charities including a local school for children with special needs. | £16,409
<strong>Dromore Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI105046](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105046)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes into contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, and the family ministry. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools, all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships with other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed £300K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity. | £4,504,922
<strong>RELATE  CAMBRIDGESHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1096975](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096975)]<br>1. TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC CONCERNING THE BENEFITS OF SECURE COUPLE RELATIONSHIPS, MARRIAGE AND FAMILY LIFE IN ORDER TO IMPROVE THE EMOTIONAL, SEXUAL AND SPIRITUAL WELL-BEING OF INDIVIDUALS WHICH IS DERIVED FROM COMMITTED RELATIONSHIPS;2. TO SEEK TO ENHANCE, THE GOOD HEALTH, BOTH MENTAL AND PHYSICAL, OF ADULTS AND CHILDREN BY:2.1 INCREASING PUBLIC AWARENESS OF THE BENEFIT OF COMMITTED COUPLE RELATIONSHIPS, MARRIAGE, AND FAMILY LIFE; AND 2.2 WORKING TO PREVENT POVERTY, HARDSHIP AND DISTRESS CAUSED BY THE BREAKDOWN OF SUCH RELATIONSHIPS;3. TO PROVIDE COUNSELLING, ADVICE, EDUCATION, GUIDANCE AND RELIEF TO ADULTS AND/OR CHILDREN IN RELATION TO ANY ASPECT OF CONTEMPORARY LIFE OR WORK WHICH:3.1 MAY PREJUDICE THEIR PHYSICAL OR MENTAL WELL BEING; OR3.2 INFLUENCE, EITHER DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, THEIR PRESENT OR FUTURE FAMILY OR COUPLE RELATIONSHIP;4. TO RELIEVE THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF YOUTH, AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR OTHER DISADVANTAGE; AND5. TO PROMOTE RESEARCH INTO ALL OF THE ABOVE OBJECTS AND TO MAKE THE RESULTS AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC | £223,171
<strong>KPT Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC050980](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050980)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit the communities of Keir, Penpont and Tynron which comprises the Community Council areas of Keir, Penpont Tynron (“the Community”) with the following objects:  (1) The advancement of community development (including sustainability, employment and the advancement of rural regeneration) within the Community recognising the diversity within the three areas involved.  (2) The provision of facilities, or the organisation of activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.  (3) To provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  (4) The advancement of environmental protection or improvement.  (5) The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.  | £1,168,796
<strong>Angus Riding For The Disabled Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC028621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028621)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to promote the objects of the Riding for the Disabled Association incorporating Carriage Driving a charity registered under Charity Number 244108 ('RDA) by providing disabled people with the opportunity to ride andlor to carriage drive to benefit their health and well being in the Angus area | £61,626
