# Riding for the disabled `BE201`

Riding for the disabled is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Beneficiary group](BE.md) categoryand the People with disabilities subcategory.

362 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.18% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(riding (centre )?for the disabled)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 204 | 0.27%
£10k - £100k | 119 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 17 | 0.08%
£250k - £500k | 12 | 0.12%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 1 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 355 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 292 | 0.17%
oscr | 52 | 0.21%
ccni | 18 | 0.25%
Total | 362 | 0.18%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [244108](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244108)]<br>RDA is dedicated to improving the lives of people with disabilities, through the provision of opportunities for riding and/or carriage driving by 500 Member Groups, the charity enables people to improve their health and wellbeing, or to achieve their goals by riding and carriage driving.  The National body promotes, supports and advises member Groups | £2,365,301
<strong>Riding For The Disabled Association Incorporating Carriage Driving</strong> [Charity number: [SC039473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039473)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to provide disabled people with the opportunity to ride and/or carriage drive to benefit their health and wellbeing. | £2,365,301
<strong>THE HORSE RANGERS ASSOCIATION (HAMPTON COURT)LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1098257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098257)]<br>A voluntary organisation that provides personal development for children and young people through learning to look after and ride horses.The charity is open to all - irrespective of background or ability.  Riders with special needs (including adults) who cannot be catered for through our mainstream activities participate through our dedicated Riding for the Disabled section. | £528,337
<strong>PARK LANE STABLES RDA</strong> [Charity number: [1161306](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161306)]<br>We are an award-winning Riding For The Disabled Group based in Southwest London offering equine therapy: riding, carriage driving, hippotherapy and stable yard activities to hundreds of children and adults with physical, sensory and learning disabilities, plus those with mental health issues and those from disadvantaged backgrounds, to improve their mental and physical wellbeing. | £488,219
<strong>MIDDLETON PARK EQUESTRIAN CENTRE RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1074366](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074366)]<br>Provision of riding for the disabled people and for disadvantaged people living in the area of Middleton in Leeds, which is one of the country's most deprived areas.  Coach driving is to be offered for the more seriously handicapped people.  The equestrian centre is open seven days per week for 50 weeks of the year and also acts as an equestrian training centre to NVQ3. | £386,896
<strong>The Cavalier Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [1163030](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163030)]<br>The principal object of the charity is to promote the objects of the Riding for the Disabled Association | £354,180
<strong>SCROPTON RIDING FOR THE DISABLED CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1170646](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170646)]<br>The provision, to disabled children and adults, of instruction and practice in horse riding, stable management and carriage driving. | £320,806
<strong>East Fife and Scooniehill Riding for the Disabled SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC042433](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042433)]<br>The organisation's purposes are to promote the objects of the Riding for the Disabled Association incorporating Carriage Driving a charity registered under charity number 244108 by providing disabled people with the opportunity to ride and/or to carriage drive to benefit their health and well-being in the North East Fife area. | £303,085
<strong>SOUTH BUCKINGHAMSHIRE RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1136630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136630)]<br>We provide therapeutic, educational, recreational and sport riding for disabled people to benefit their health and well-being. | £301,577
<strong>HAWORTH RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1177287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177287)]<br>RIDING LESSONS FOR CHILDREN/ADULTS WITH LEARNING/PHYSICAL DISABILTIES.STABLE MANAGEMENT/HORSE CARE AS ABOVE.SOCIAL INTERACTION. | £289,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KINGLEY VALE GROUP RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1173992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173992)]<br>The Group works with children with a range of disabilities and promotes general good health and well being through interaction with the ponies, and by learning to ride them. They achieve success in riding the ponies with adult specialist training and support, which in turn builds confidence in the individual.  Children improve their core balance and large motor skills. | £4,591
<strong>LAPWORTH GROUP RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1192743](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192743)]<br>The group provides weekly horseriding lessons for children from a Special Needs school | £3,004
<strong>ANDOVER RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1170641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170641)]<br>The Charity provides equestrian services specifically for people with disabilities in order for them to gain therapeutic benefit and have the opportunity to achieve. These activities include riding therapy and training; carriage driving; training on animal care and stable management; competitions and educational activities and specific projects aimed at providing therapeutic benefit. | £17,715
<strong>Riding for the Disabled Carrick Group [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC028640](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028640)]<br>The organisation's purpose is to promote the objects of the Riding for the Disabled Association incorporating Carriage Driving (Company No 5010395) a charity registered under Charity Number SC039473 ('the Company') by providing disabled people with the opportunity to ride and/or to carriage drive to benefit their health and wellbeing in the East and South Ayrshire area.  | £8,074
<strong>Riding for the Disabled. STRABANE Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI104338](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104338)]<br>The aim of the Group is to provide disabled children with the opportunity to ride, to benefit their health and well being and provide enjoyment and some control over their environment. The Group provides disabled children with opportunities to join in social activities and competitions which combine to bring a new dimension to necessarily restricted lives, encourage independence and do much to improve a wide range of medical conditions. The Group is committed to providing a safe and enjoyable environment for children and young people. | £1,058
<strong>FRIENDS OF LANDLORDS RIDING FOR THE DISABLED</strong> [Charity number: [1153239](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153239)]<br>?We have a growing network of volunteers who assist with fund raising activities, horse riding lessons and care activities?Submission of Sport England Inspired Facilities bid to improve facilities for disabled riders?We offer a range of horse riding and care programs to schools, local authorities and the local community | £231
<strong>ELYSIAN RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1170284](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170284)]<br>To promote the objects of Riding for the Disabled Association incorporating Carriage Driving by providing disabled people with the opportunity to ride a horse and / or to Carriage Drive to benefit their health and well being in the Cambridgeshire area | £5,437
<strong>DIGSWELL PLACE GROUP RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1163233](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163233)]<br>Through horseriding activities we aim to provide therapy, achievement and enjoyment to children and adults with a variety of disabilities. The riders gain the physiological advantages of exercise in the open air, increased self-confidence, independence from taking responsibility and the opportunity to meet and socialise with the RDA community and have fun.Merged with Charity 1074341 on 12Nov2015. | £140,388
<strong>BLYTH AND WANSBECK GROUP RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1074379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074379)]<br>Learning disabilitys. | 
<strong>ST IVES (BINGLEY) RIDING FOR THE DISABLED ASSOCIATION INCORPORATING CARRIAGE DRIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1198525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198525)]<br>St Ives (Bingley) RDA works in partnership with other organisations to provide education and training in equestrian activities for service users including school children, young adults and adults from the Bradford and Aire Valley area who have physical and/or learning disabilities. | £58,917
