# Charity shops `CA102`

Charity shops is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) category.

897 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.44% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(shops?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 206 | 0.28%
£10k - £100k | 384 | 0.56%
£100k - £250k | 129 | 0.62%
£250k - £500k | 59 | 0.59%
£500k - £1m | 38 | 0.61%
£1m - £10m | 45 | 0.53%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 863 | 0.45%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 768 | 0.45%
ccni | 83 | 1.15%
oscr | 46 | 0.19%
Total | 897 | 0.44%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Oxfam Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI100848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100848)]<br>Oxfam Northern Ireland, together with Oxfam Republic of Ireland, is an independent affiliate member of the global Oxfam International Confederation . Our purpose is to help create lasting solutions to the injustice of poverty. Our role is to enable transformational change; to open political space, building capacity and sharing technical expertise, raising funds and public support, leveraging our own resources to multiply funds, providing strategic funding to partners and carrying out humanitarian work that integrates life-saving response in times of crisis with building resilience We focus on three key areas as follows: • Practical support for the long-term development efforts of communities and people affected by chronic poverty • The urgent relief of suffering caused by humanitarian crises, whether natural or man-made • Campaigning & advocacy to change the policies and practices of public and private institutions that effect the lives of people living in poverty In order to achieve our purpose, we raise funds from government, trusts and other foundations, through our chain of shops and via fundraising events, legacies and from the general public. We also work to raise public awareness on the underlying causes of global poverty and injustice and offer the public a variety of channels through which they can engage with our work to bring about positive changes in the lives of people who are living in poverty. We campaign and lobby key decision-makers and institutions to bring about pro poor policy changes at all levelsand we bring the voices of the poor to key-decision-making forums. | £18,985,000
<strong>PRINCESS ALICE HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1010930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010930)]<br>As specialists in end of life care, our primary objective is the care and support of our patients, their families and their friends. This takes place in both our extensive community and within our purpose built hospice. Education and research are important secondary objectives in our work, and like our patient care they are supported through our fundraising activities and our high street shops. | £17,647,529
<strong>NORTH LONDON COST SHOP</strong> [Charity number: [1188028](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188028)]<br>The objectives for which the charity was formed are the relief of financial hardship for the public benefit by theprovision of household goods and food products at wholesale prices to people who might otherwise not be able toafford them. In order to achieve the charitable objectives, the charity is operating a low cost shop in North London. | £9,027,392
<strong>TEXTILE REUSE AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [297489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-297489)]<br>TRAID is an environmental and poverty relief charity. TRAID reduces landfill through; the provision of textile recycling facilities, its charity shops and upcycled clothing. Funds raised go to environmental and textile related international development projects and TRAID's education programmes developed to gain greater recycling participation and empathy with the issues surrounding global poverty. | £8,657,587
<strong>ST RAPHAEL'S HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1182636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182636)]<br>AS SPECIALISTS IN END OF LIFE CARE, OUR PRIMARY OBJECTIVE IS THE CARE AND SUPPORT OF OUR PATIENTS, THEIR FAMILIES AND THEIR FRIENDS. THIS TAKES PLACE IN BOTH OUR EXTENSIVE COMMUNITY AND WITHIN OUR PURPOSE BUILT HOSPICE. EDUCATION AND RESEARCH ARE IMPORTANT SECONDARY OBJECTIVES IN OUR WORK, AND LIKE OUR PATIENT CARE THEY ARE SUPPORTED THROUGH OUR FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES AND OUR HIGH STREET SHOPS. | £7,467,000
<strong>HARLINGTON HOSPICE ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1099332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099332)]<br>The charity provides a  10 bedded hospice inpatient unit, domiciliary care, hospice at home service, day care hospice, Lymphoedema clinic and family support.The charity  runs 6 charity shops. | £6,692,270
<strong>WASTESAVERS CHARITABLE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1116150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116150)]<br>Wastesavers Charitable Trust Limited operates three community projects in Newport:Education - schools, community groups on and off siteCommunity Furniture Shop - collects and distributes household itemsTraining - excluded young people from schools | £6,018,130
<strong>ST GEORGE'S CRYPT</strong> [Charity number: [1144474](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144474)]<br>ST GEORGE'S CRYPT PROVIDES PRACTICAL CARE AND SUPPORT FOR HOMELESS, DESTITUTE AND DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE. IT OPERATES IN THE LEEDS AREA. THE CRYPT  RUNS ONE HOSTEL FOR PEOPLE WITH A BACKGROUND OF ADDICTION; IT ALSO PROMOTES A PROGRAMME OF TRAINING AND ENGAGEMENT AND ACTIVELY PROMOTES RESETTLEMENT. THE CRYPT IS A FAITH-BASED CHARITY.THE CHARITY ALSO RUNS THREE SHOPS . | £4,529,336
<strong>VALLEY CIDS AND RELATED CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [1123173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123173)]<br>Money is raised through income from charity shops and donations.  This enables the charity to employ youth and children's workers to work in schools, youth clubs and the local community.  The charity works mainly in Derbyshire. | £4,311,755
<strong>FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE HOSPICE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1119499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119499)]<br>The Charity supports the work of Florence Nightingale Hospice through total funding of specific services such as the Children's Hospice at Home, Day Hospice, Lymphoedema service, and part-funding of inpatient nursing, Nightingale 24/7 service and community palliative care nurses. We raise £790,000 per annum through donations, fundraising, gifts in a will, shops and a local hospices' lottery. | £3,886,141


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Friends of Britannia Panopticon Music Hall Trust (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC029031](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029031)]<br>4.1 To advance the conservation and preservation of the Britannia Panopticon Music Hall and ensure the building's future as a viable visitor attraction and a living museum of popular entertainments from the music hall auditorium to the attic area.  4.2 To promote the involvement of the community in this unique building as a learning, archival and educational resource for the wider community and to engender further volunteer support for the day to day running thereof.  4.3 To promote and hold the music hall at all times as a building of historic interest and importance and to secure its permanent preservation for the benefit of the public as an outstanding example of a Victorian Music Hall and a rare survivor of its genre.  4.4 To facilitate the use of its premises on such terms as the Trustees deem fit for any purpose, public or private, and in particular for music hall and other performances, meetings, exhibitions, lectures, dinners and other entertainments. also for shops, restaurants or business premises to enable the foregoing purposes to be carried out effectively as required.  | £53,122
<strong>LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF SOUTH TYNESIDE HOSPITALS</strong> [Charity number: [232272](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232272)]<br>The League's activities are personal service and fund raising.  The League is responsible for the Hospital shop which opens each weekday from 10 am until 8pm and restricted hours at the weekend and public holidays. The profits from sales along with other moneys raised are used to purchase items for the benefit of the hospital and  patients. | £13,609
<strong>THE KATHLEEN HOME MISSIONARY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1105141](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1105141)]<br>'RAISES FUNDS FROM A CHARITY SHOP AND REMITS THEM TO A CHILDRENS HOME IN NARSAPUR INDIA' AND SUPPORTS THE WORK OF OTHER CHRISTIAN CHARITIES | £38,518
<strong>Oaklands Church</strong> [Charity number: [1065893](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065893)]<br>ACTIVITIES RELATING TO LOCAL CHURCH. CHILDRENS CLUB; YOUTH CLUB; TODDLER GROUP; CHARITY SHOP;ELDERLY; OVERSEAS MISSION | £146,351
<strong>MIND IN FURNESS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1143600](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143600)]<br>A local Mind association providing a range of services to support people experiencing emotional distress and poor mental wellbeing.  We provide supported housing, a range of activities from a Wellbeing Centre including groups, peer support, outdoor access , counselling, supported volunteering, advice and information, outreach, anti stigma and promotional work, charity shop. | £628,911
<strong>NORTH LONDON COST SHOP</strong> [Charity number: [1188028](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188028)]<br>The objectives for which the charity was formed are the relief of financial hardship for the public benefit by theprovision of household goods and food products at wholesale prices to people who might otherwise not be able toafford them. In order to achieve the charitable objectives, the charity is operating a low cost shop in North London. | £9,027,392
<strong>SACRED HEART SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1026405](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026405)]<br>CAKE SALES,  BOOK FAYRES, CHRISTMAS DISCO, FAYRE AND PARTY, CHRISTMAS WREATH MAKING, EASTER BINGO,  MUSICAL EVENING, PRIVATE VIEW, SUMMER FAYRE, TUCK SHOPS AND COFFEE MORNINGS. | £11,515
<strong>The Somme Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI105286](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105286)]<br>The Somme Association was formed to educate the public and commemorate, on a cross community basis, the role played by Irishmen and women in the First World War. It does this through 4 main programme areas: • The Somme Museum is the main channel through which the Association seeks to achieve its aims in N.I. and across the wider island. The Museum is an educational and tourist facility which examines and commemorates Ireland’s contribution to World War One through the actions of the 10th and 16th (Irish) Divisions and the 36th (Ulster) Division. The Museum has various displays and exhibitions and operates organised guided tours. The Museum has increasingly focused on the community relations potential of our shared history as a vehicle to further cross-community understanding and reconciliation. The Museum includes a shop selling books and memorabilia, and a cafe, which is available to the casual visitor and organisations for planned events. • Education & Outreach is essential to the Somme Association. We deliver numerous outreach sessions to all ages and continue to strive to enable participation of groups with special needs. There is a growing demand for this facility and this increases the profile of our work. • The Somme Association has a leading role in a number of commemoration events in France and Belgium. The main event takes place each year on the 1st July at the Ulster Memorial Tower in Thiepval in France, N.I.’s principal War Memorial to those who sacrificed their lives in the First World War. • The Ulster Tower, in France, attracts visitors to view the Memorial Room on the ground floor. Adjacent to the Tower is a visitors' centre with a cafe and shop containing a small display area, containing First World War artefacts recovered from the surrounding area, as well as an audio-visual section which shows films from the period. Somme Association staff in the Ulster Tower provide organised tours of Thiepval Wood from Mar to Nov each year. | £222,365
<strong>Barrfields Theatre User Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC052380](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052380)]<br>The Organisation's objectives are the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, and the provision of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. ln furtherance of these objectives, the organisation will: (a) support the development and efficient operation of the Barrfields Theatre facility and Valhalladrome Studio Theatre within Vikingar, Largs. The vikingar exhibition which utilises the Valhalladrome space during daytime seasonal hours is managed solely by KA Leisure Ltd. Our organisation will promote use of the studio theatre space known as the Valhalladrome as a secondary performance arts venue with a capacity of 77 seats and small staging performance area. This will attract a variety of performance groups both amateur and professional seeking an alternate space with a more intimate capacity than the Barrfields main theatre auditorium within the same building. This will in particular allow the promotion of new works, variety shows such as comedy clubs, and with its projection equipment it will allow furtherance of film media organisations and events. (b) Seek to increase participation in all activities within the facility. to increase footfall. to create and develop a professional environment for all productions and to stage events in line with these objectives. (c) Act as theatre proprietors and managers in procuring a calendar of creative performance arts events acros$ all performance media including non musicalworks, musicals, operas, comedy presentations, artistic presentations and exhibitions and all such similar creative arts presentations and promotes the use of the theatre for both touring professionals and amateur organisations resulting in a wide spectrum of events at various price points to engage as much of the public as possible. Through our organisation in addition to booking acts, we support the performances and gain income through providing a bar service, a 'tuck shop' style concession stand service, volunteer ushers and front of house management volunteers to ensure the efficient safe running of all performances and we provide technical support to visiting productions through our technical convenor . We contribute to the marketing and promotion of all activities to drive attendance and increase community engagement, for example by creating workshops | 
<strong>Access Employment Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100987](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100987)]<br>AEL operate a Social Firm with the aim of providing training, work experience and sustained employment for people with mental ill health, learning disability and others from a disadvantaged background. The Social Firm offers a range of services to the public and private sector including packaging, sample making, mail shots/mail merge, sub contract work & room hire. We also operate an online shop in which we sell our own packaged goods and also operate our own cafe on site. We provide 50 day opportunity placements per week to the NHSCT for individuals with learning disability. | £1,168,987
