# Advice and individual advocacy `CA101`

Advice and individual advocacy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) category.

3,325 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.64% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(information service|law centre|law society|legal (rights|services?|advocacy|support|advice)|(debt|financial) advice|advocacy|help ?-?line|CITIZENS ADVICE|advice (&|and) guidance)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 730 | 0.99%
£10k - £100k | 690 | 1.00%
£100k - £250k | 444 | 2.10%
£250k - £500k | 394 | 3.87%
£500k - £1m | 372 | 5.83%
£1m - £10m | 425 | 4.91%
Over £10m | 48 | 2.28%
Total | 3,103 | 1.62%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,828 | 1.66%
oscr | 294 | 1.19%
ccni | 203 | 2.82%
Total | 3,325 | 1.64%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £400,600,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £280,413,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £274,694,061
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF CITIZENS ADVICE BUREAUX</strong> [Charity number: [279057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-279057)]<br>Citizens Advice provides free, independent, confidential and impartial advice to everyone on their rights and responsibilities. We value diversity, promote equality and challenge discrimination. | £166,319,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE, U.K</strong> [Charity number: [1065972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065972)]<br>The International Rescue Committee UK is an independent British charity, established in 1997 as part of the International Rescue Committee network. The IRC provides emergency relief, protection of human rights, post-conflict reconstruction, resettlement assistance & advocacy to those uprooted or affected by violent conflict, oppression and natural disaster in countries around the world. | £122,092,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £95,410,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BLIND PEOPLE</strong> [Charity number: [226227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226227)]<br>RNIB is the UK's leading charity offering information, support and advice to over two million people with sight problems. Our work helps anyone with a sight problem - with braille, Talking Books, education and imaginative and practical solutions to everyday challenges.  We fight for equal rights for people with sight problems. Contact the Helpline on 0303 123 9999 or visit www.rnib.org.uk | £89,683,000
<strong>THERA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1090163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090163)]<br>The Thera Group of companies supports people with a learning disability. It employs staff who support people in their own home, in their local community and for short breaks.  Thera also provides financial advocacy and quality assurance services; as well as developing and running social enterprises. | £81,389,860
<strong>THE WHITGIFT FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [312612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312612)]<br>The charity has three independent schools in the Croydon Area. Fee assistance is provided to over 500 pupils by way of a means tested bursaries scheme. The charity also runs two care homes and Almshouses providing nursing care, residential care and sheltered accommodation to the elderly in the region.  In addition, we provide a Carer's Information Service for adults caring for others in Croydon. | £78,919,524


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HOLD MY HAND FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1190996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190996)]<br>MAKES GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS AND TO ORGANISATIONSPROVIDES SERVICES, ADVOCACY / ADVICE / INFORMATIONAND OTHER CHARITABLE ACTIVITIESTO:CHILDREN / YOUNG PEOPLEELDERLY / OLD PEOPLEPEOPLE WITH DISABILITIESOTHER CHARITIES OR VOLUNTARY BODIESTHE GENERAL PUBLIC / MANKINDWORLDWIDE | 
<strong>CAMPAIGN FOR SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING</strong> [Charity number: [1147492](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147492)]<br>Our mission is to raise the political profile of science and engineering. We passionately believe in the importance of scientific and technological education and development, and the vital need for the funding of this research by Government and industry. The strength of our policy advocacy is due to our political networks, independent analysis, broad membership, and responsiveness. | £865,515
<strong>QUEST FOR SUCCESS SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053801](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053801)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are: 4.1 A The prevention or relief of poverty specifically referring to the following: Activities that prevent poverty are those that seek to address its causes. They include preventing those who are already poor from becoming poorer, as well as helping those at risk to avoid poverty. In furtherance of this/these object(s) the organisation will undertake the following activities: training in work skills, CV writing or preparation for interviews to improve employment prospects. To facilitate access to apprenticeship programs through partnerships with businesses, educational institutions, and government agencies. To offer guidance, mentorship, and resources to youth in developing essential employability skills, including but not limited to communication, teamwork, problem-solving, and professionalism. To advocate for policies and initiatives that promote youth employment and apprenticeship opportunities at local, regional, and national levels. 4.2  F The advancement of citizenship or community development Promotion of Civic Responsibility will be a key factor as we help young people become and want to become responsible members of society. Our apprenticeships could be compared to the goals of volunteering in a way as many of the benefits are related, although our beneficiaries will be in paid apprenticeships.  In furtherance of this/these object(s) the organisation will undertake the following activities:  providing education, training and re-training opportunities and work experience, especially for unemployed people helping unemployed people to find employment Our aims in offering pathways to better employment prospects are intended to:  • reduce anti-social behaviour • prevent individuals from becoming socially excluded • assist people to live better, safer or more fulfilled lives by encouraging social inclusion. 4.3  N The relief of those in need Here we are focussing on young people disadvantaged by their circumstances, poverty or lack of prospects, as well as rehabilitation of young offenders.  In furtherance of this/these object(s) the organisation will undertake the following activities= subject to referrals: • rehabilitating ex-offenders • supporting migrants, refugees and asylum seekers • supporting homeless people • supporting victims of crime or survivors of abuse • And • providing specialist advice, guidance and advocacy services •  4.4  P Any other analgous purpose: The relief of unemployment: We consider this purpose to be analogous to the relief of poverty, in view of the well-established link between unemployment and poverty. In furtherance of this/these object(s) the organisation will undertake the following activities subject to referrals. Helping young unemployed people with limited prospects to: • get training in work-related skills • benefit from apprenticeships and work placements This is the heart and soul of our entire ethos and purpose | 
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £61,319,854
<strong>BRIDGWATER COMMUNITY CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [290793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-290793)]<br>The Church operates locally in relationship with a family of churches across the UK and abroad, supporting mission locally and abroad, and runs a community resource which is used by organizations as a community center. We also run community activities locally and provide support for Grace Advocacy helping to provide support to those in the local community who are need of assistance. | £22,776
<strong>NATIONAL GROCERS BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1095897](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095897)]<br>We tackle hardship amongst those who have worked or are working in the grocery trade, whether in manufacturing, distribution, wholesale or retail. We give financial help via regular and one-off crisis grants, and supply essential household items and independent living aids.  We offer practical and emotional support for a wide range of personal and welfare issues via our 24/7 helpline and website. | £15,850,964
<strong>COMMUNITY ACTIVE SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1095082](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095082)]<br>Information, advice and guidance General and Sexual Health promotion and awareness Children and Youth activities, holidays, activities, homework clubs, learning and parental support scheme.Workshops, social and leisures event organisingBasic skills Training and Languages ClassesWork placement scheme, VolunteeringOutreach Activities, Heritagepartnership working and capacity building | £65,570
<strong>The Black Box Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI100983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100983)]<br>Black Moon - a night for and by adults with learning disabilities with participants taking part from all over NI - Bangor, Omagh, Carrickfergus and greater Belfast area. DJ skills are taught to users including two resident DJs with physical and learning disabilities. Dance and social interaction encouraged for all participants to encourage reduced feelings of loneliness, improve physical and mental wellbeing. Black Moon also provides additional events such as IT awareness, arts workshops, dance classes and live performances by musicians. Black Moon Film Club - takes place at the Black Box and across other venues in Northern Ireland introducing different kinds of film to learning disabled audiences and funded by the BFI Film Hub NI programme. Kidnap Wednesday - drop in and advocacy group for adults with learning disabilities. Creating Connections - drop in group for older adults with learning disabilities. Volunteer programme also. Also holds special events during the year such as Tea Dances and dance classes. Access To Arts - ensuring ticket prices to events are affordable. LunchBox Theatre - for first time directors, actors and writers to learn and develop the appropriate skills to create new pieces of theatre. Support provided from professional writers to help advise and improve on the work. Public performance a key element of the programme. Opportunities for light & sound engineers to develop skills. Student Placements - training for events/arts/marketing graduates/students to hone their skills for professional practice. Involved in putting on events, liaising with performers, training on marketing, events management skills and all aspects of running an arts venue. NEETS placements - placements for those in long term unemployment or not in education. Skills in customer service, event management, marketing, vulnerable adult and social media training. Visual Arts Exhibition Space Programme of over 300 arts, culture & science events per year | £653,441
<strong>Musselburgh and District Citizens Advice Bureau SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC013364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013364)]<br>The relief of poverty, through addressing inequality by means of the provision of accurate and appropriate advice. 4.2 The advancement of education, by providing individuals with information, clar ification and understanding of legislation and their legal rights and responsibilities, including to improve personal financial management and financial capability. 4.3 The relief of those in need, by providing a comprehensive advice service to those suffering by reason of age, ill-health, disability or financial hardship. 4.4 The advancement of citizenship and community development, including through the provision of learning opportunities, providing individuals with appropriate skills to secure and retain employment and assisting members of the public in their community. 4.5 The advancement of human rights by ensuring that people do not suffer through ignorance of their human rights and by taking such actions required to redress the situation and restore justice, | £328,566
<strong>MERCY MISSION INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1110370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110370)]<br>Orphanage orientated charity dealing with the physical and spiritual needs of both children and adults. Empowering women with employment training programs, and advocacy support services against gender base violence. Climate change awareness services. | £15,450
