# Social Investment `CA104`

Social Investment is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) category.

17 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.01% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(social investment|social finance)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1 | 0.00%
£10k - £100k | 3 | 0.00%
£100k - £250k | 2 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 1 | 0.01%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 17 | 0.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 12 | 0.01%
ccni | 3 | 0.04%
oscr | 2 | 0.01%
Total | 17 | 0.01%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SOCIAL INVESTMENT BUSINESS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1117185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117185)]<br>SIB FOUNDATION INVESTS IN COMMUNITY BASED ORGANISATIONS RUNNING ENTERPRISE ACTIVITIES.  WE PROVIDE FINANCE SUCH AS LOANS, GRANTS AND EQUITIES AS WELL AS SUPPORT AND ADVICE. | £69,549,000
<strong>VODAFONE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1193984](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193984)]<br>Vodafone Foundation is at the centre of a network of 24 global & local social investment programmes. Through this unique network, we are able to think & act locally & respond to the needs of the communities in which Vodafone operates. Globally, we harness the power of mobile technology to deliver long-term sustainable programmes that drive transformational change & support disaster response. | £19,589,579
<strong>ACCESS - THE FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL INVESTMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1159699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159699)]<br>Access aims to bridge the gap in the social investment market so that suitable finance and support is available to social enterprises and charities which are new to social investment. Access will be a wholesale provider, working with and through existing market players to deliver its programmes. This enables Access to take a strategic view of the needs of social ventures over the next decade. | £18,249,000
<strong>COMMUNITY FOUNDATIONS FOR LANCASHIRE AND MERSEYSIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1068887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068887)]<br>We are part of a national movement of community foundations that undertakes strategic social investment, including grant-making, facilitates community philanthropy and contributes to achieving positive social change in communities. | £4,387,103
<strong>GREATER MANCHESTER CENTRE FOR VOLUNTARY ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [504542](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-504542)]<br>GMCVO works to increase economic and social inclusion in Greater Manchester through effective collaborations and supporting other organisations to achieve their goals. We support voluntary organisations and social enterprises to understand the operating environment, to gain social investment and we test new approaches. We provide investment and are a lead body for networks & partnership projects. | £3,324,605
<strong>THE VIRGIN MONEY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1161290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161290)]<br>Promoting the sustainable regeneration of socially or economically deprived communities in the UK, including by providing social investment in community housing and building projects, promoting opportunities for youth work, education, training and enterprise especially in such projects, relieving unemployment and the promotion of other community based projects. | £3,269,600
<strong>The Virgin Money Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC050400](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050400)]<br>5  The only objects for which the Charity is established are for the public benefit:  5.1 to promote the sustainable regeneration of communities in the UK by whatever charitable means the Trustees think fit including (but not limited to) by providing grant making and other forms of social investment for community projects, including housing and building projects, youth work, education, training and enterprise projects, relieving unemployment and the promotion of other community based projects. and  5.2  to further such other exclusively charitable purposes in the UK according to the law of England and Wales as the Trustees in their absolute discretion from time to time determine ('the Objects'). | £3,269,600
<strong>Social Investment Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC036875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036875)]<br>The objects of the Company are to promote the advancement of citizenship and community development within Scotland and elsewhere for the benefit of the public by supporting the social sector, and in particular widening access to funding for the social sector, identifying needs in the social sector, providing and developing and/or assisting in the provision and development of support and advice for the social sector, all with a view to developing capacities and skills in, improving the financial sustainability and maximising the contribution of the social sector to society and such that, for the purpose of this clause the 'social sector' shall be taken to comprise:- (a) organisations which are recognised as charities. (b) social organisations which are (i) independent and/or voluntary organisations and established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and (ii) which are not established primarily to distribute a profit (and on the basis that, for the avoidance of doubt, local government or other statutory authorities shall not be deemed to fall within the voluntary sector for the purposes of this clause). and (c) companies and other legal entities which are wholly owned or controlled by one or more social sector organisation. | £2,711,651
<strong>THE RISMAN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1123010](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123010)]<br>The Risman Foundation is focused on grant-making and social investment in a variety of areas with emphases on social entrepreneurship, education, sporting endeavour, travel and humanity-related matters. | £2,258,904
<strong>Omagh Enterprise Company Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101885)]<br>The organisation provides a range of industrial and office space for rent on favourable terms to individuals, businesses and social entrepreneurs. The recent establishment of an Innovation Growth Centre, providing accommodation for up to 20 high-tech businesses, has enhanced the space available and provided dedicated facilities for start-up and social enterprise businesses. In addition, a number of conference, meeting and training rooms are available for hire to businesses and community and voluntary organisations. The availability of accommodation is complemented by the provision of reception services, secretarial support, free Wi-fi, hot desks and free car parking and access to a small business loan fund that add considerable benefits to the users and the wider community. The organisation also provides a range of business start-up, business growth, social economy and innovation programmes. These include: the Exploring Enterprise programme, the Social Entrepreneurship programme, the Regional Start programme, Steps to Work programme, Advance, Harnessing Creativity programme, Innovation Enterprise programme and the Tradelinks programme. The programmes delivered are supplemented by business clinics, informal advice and mentoring, and provide opportunities to network with other business owners and social entrepreneurs. The organisation is also an accredited European Computer Driving Licence Centre. The organisation works in close partnership with a number of key stakeholders. They include: Omagh District Council, Social Enterprise NI, Young Enterprise, Princes Trust, Unltd, Omagh District Training Consortium, South West College, Enterprising West, Invest NI, Department of Social Development, Omagh Chamber of Commerce, Omagh Neighbourhood Renewal Partnership, Young Enterprise, Business in the Community, Social Investment Fund and the Social Enterprise Hubs. | £1,227,229


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE VIRGIN MONEY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1161290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161290)]<br>Promoting the sustainable regeneration of socially or economically deprived communities in the UK, including by providing social investment in community housing and building projects, promoting opportunities for youth work, education, training and enterprise especially in such projects, relieving unemployment and the promotion of other community based projects. | £3,269,600
<strong>CET-C FOR WOMEN</strong> [Charity number: [1146446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146446)]<br>CET-c for Women, based in London is serving England and Wales, and as required, extends services to other nations by activities  including: 1. Mission outreaches in advancing the Christian faith2. Promoting the understanding of marital harmony and parenting skills3. Educating the public in personal and collective family financial management 4. Promoting family health and social investment | £47,947
<strong>SHAREDIMPACT</strong> [Charity number: [1145471](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145471)]<br>SharedImpact's mission is to improve the financial efficiency and effectiveness of charities and social enterprises. We do this in a variety of ways - principally by acting as a social financial intermediary, seeking to build a robust social investment market. | £191,882
<strong>GREATER MANCHESTER CENTRE FOR VOLUNTARY ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [504542](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-504542)]<br>GMCVO works to increase economic and social inclusion in Greater Manchester through effective collaborations and supporting other organisations to achieve their goals. We support voluntary organisations and social enterprises to understand the operating environment, to gain social investment and we test new approaches. We provide investment and are a lead body for networks & partnership projects. | £3,324,605
<strong>Brownstown Owners And Tenants Association (BOATA)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100263)]<br>BOATA activities include running a series of classes i.e. computer classes, first aid, health and safety, youth forum, and over fifties club, Women’s Group and The Portadown Somme Fellowship. Residents from Brownstown have taken part in different courses over the year, courses like. These are a few of the courses that are available to all residents in the area. Training for: Drug awareness training. IT training Women’s group good practice visit, craft, healthy eating, cook it Environmental Improvements, Intergenerational Project Brownstown Women’s Group Cultural Understanding Child protection training. Over the past year Boata members have continued to represent Brownstown residents at meetings with all the local statuary bodies, Craigavon Borough Council, Northern Ireland Housing Executive’s, Housing Community Network, Area Housing Community Network, and Central Housing Community Network. We hold interagency meetings each month, making sure our views are heard in the right places and by the right people. BOATA continue to represent our residents at meetings with the Housing Executive on housing matters that affect the Brownstown area. Group members maintain the flower beds at the entrance to the estate and entrance features to the BEST Centre. The committee held a fun day in Brownstown Park in July. Everyone who attended enjoyed them self’s. Brownstown women’s group hold a coffee morning each Friday morning. The committee continue to work with the Social Investment Fund and are looking forward to getting the extension to the BEST Centre started. Following requests from local residents the BOATA committee have agreed to explore setting up a Men’s Shed and Hen’s Shed at the BEST Centre. Funding permitting we plan the development of a community garden at the Centre for residents to use and enjoy. | £4,021
<strong>Social Investment Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC036875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036875)]<br>The objects of the Company are to promote the advancement of citizenship and community development within Scotland and elsewhere for the benefit of the public by supporting the social sector, and in particular widening access to funding for the social sector, identifying needs in the social sector, providing and developing and/or assisting in the provision and development of support and advice for the social sector, all with a view to developing capacities and skills in, improving the financial sustainability and maximising the contribution of the social sector to society and such that, for the purpose of this clause the 'social sector' shall be taken to comprise:- (a) organisations which are recognised as charities. (b) social organisations which are (i) independent and/or voluntary organisations and established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and (ii) which are not established primarily to distribute a profit (and on the basis that, for the avoidance of doubt, local government or other statutory authorities shall not be deemed to fall within the voluntary sector for the purposes of this clause). and (c) companies and other legal entities which are wholly owned or controlled by one or more social sector organisation. | £2,711,651
<strong>ACCESS - THE FOUNDATION FOR SOCIAL INVESTMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1159699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159699)]<br>Access aims to bridge the gap in the social investment market so that suitable finance and support is available to social enterprises and charities which are new to social investment. Access will be a wholesale provider, working with and through existing market players to deliver its programmes. This enables Access to take a strategic view of the needs of social ventures over the next decade. | £18,249,000
<strong>VODAFONE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1193984](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193984)]<br>Vodafone Foundation is at the centre of a network of 24 global & local social investment programmes. Through this unique network, we are able to think & act locally & respond to the needs of the communities in which Vodafone operates. Globally, we harness the power of mobile technology to deliver long-term sustainable programmes that drive transformational change & support disaster response. | £19,589,579
<strong>HYDE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [289888](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289888)]<br>The Hyde Charitable Trust is part of the Hyde Group and supports the work of the Hyde Foundation, Hydes social investment team. The Charitys funds are targeted to the Hyde residents and communities who are most in need and it invests money in programmes and services that have the most impact on the lives and futures of Hyde residents and communities. | £513,000
<strong>Omagh Enterprise Company Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101885)]<br>The organisation provides a range of industrial and office space for rent on favourable terms to individuals, businesses and social entrepreneurs. The recent establishment of an Innovation Growth Centre, providing accommodation for up to 20 high-tech businesses, has enhanced the space available and provided dedicated facilities for start-up and social enterprise businesses. In addition, a number of conference, meeting and training rooms are available for hire to businesses and community and voluntary organisations. The availability of accommodation is complemented by the provision of reception services, secretarial support, free Wi-fi, hot desks and free car parking and access to a small business loan fund that add considerable benefits to the users and the wider community. The organisation also provides a range of business start-up, business growth, social economy and innovation programmes. These include: the Exploring Enterprise programme, the Social Entrepreneurship programme, the Regional Start programme, Steps to Work programme, Advance, Harnessing Creativity programme, Innovation Enterprise programme and the Tradelinks programme. The programmes delivered are supplemented by business clinics, informal advice and mentoring, and provide opportunities to network with other business owners and social entrepreneurs. The organisation is also an accredited European Computer Driving Licence Centre. The organisation works in close partnership with a number of key stakeholders. They include: Omagh District Council, Social Enterprise NI, Young Enterprise, Princes Trust, Unltd, Omagh District Training Consortium, South West College, Enterprising West, Invest NI, Department of Social Development, Omagh Chamber of Commerce, Omagh Neighbourhood Renewal Partnership, Young Enterprise, Business in the Community, Social Investment Fund and the Social Enterprise Hubs. | £1,227,229
