# Policy campaigning and advocacy `CA103`

Policy campaigning and advocacy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) category.

6,376 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(campaign(ing)?|education of the public|public education|(public|government|state)? ?policy|policy ?-?makers?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,933 | 2.61%
£10k - £100k | 1,984 | 2.88%
£100k - £250k | 568 | 2.70%
£250k - £500k | 374 | 3.70%
£500k - £1m | 319 | 5.04%
£1m - £10m | 511 | 5.94%
Over £10m | 148 | 7.11%
Total | 5,837 | 3.05%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,717 | 2.76%
oscr | 1,471 | 5.95%
ccni | 188 | 2.61%
Total | 6,376 | 3.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WELLCOME TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [210183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210183)]<br>Wellcome exists to improve health by helping great ideas to thrive.We support researchers, we take on big health challenges, we campaign for better science, and we help everyone get involved with science and health research. We are a politically and financially independent foundation. | £541,832,807
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £400,600,000
<strong>THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON FOR IMPROVING NATURAL KNOWLEDGE (COMMONLY KNOWN AS THE ROYAL SOCIETY)</strong> [Charity number: [207043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207043)]<br>The Royal Society has three roles: A learned society; The UK's Academy of Science; And as a funding agency. We- Promote science and its benefits- Recognise excellence in science- Support outstanding science- Provide scientific advice for policy- Foster international and global cooperation- Provide education and public engagement | £396,290,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>change,grow,live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>3. The objects of the Charity are to relieve poverty in particular but not exclusively through the provision of housing, to relieve sickness and to advance the education and training in particular of all persons (and members of their families) who: 3.1.1 have committed or are likely to commit a criminal act or acts. or 3.1.2 have been or are or are in danger of becoming substance misusers. or 3.1.3 have been or are or are in danger of becoming addicted to or dependent upon drugs of any description including without limitation on the generality of the foregoing illegal drugs, alcohol, solvents or other addictive substances. or 3.1.4 have been or are or are likely to become victims of domestic abuse. or 3.1.5 have been or are or are likely to become homeless. or 3.1.6 suffer mental ill health. or 3.1.7 have suffered a legal restriction on their liberty In any penal or correctional establishment. to advance the education of the public by promoting study and research into homelessness and all aspects of and methods of crime prevention and delinquency and the prevention of drug abuse and substance misuse and to disseminate the useful results of such research. to promote for the public benefit the prevention of criminal acts and of drug abuse and substance misuse and of homelessness. to promote for the public benefit the protection of people and property from criminal acts and the effects of drug abuse and substance misuse. the promotion of charitable purposes within the member countries of the European Union, for the advancement of education, the protection of health, the relief of poverty, sickness and distress and to reduce substance related harm to the individual and the wider community. and to undertake such other activities as are charitable. | £284,264,901
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £277,273,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £274,694,061
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £249,600,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [209603](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209603)]<br>To save lives, promote safety and rescue service efficiency, and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters; to advance the education of the public in matters relating to sea, inland and flood water safety, and in the history and heritage of the Institution; to relieve/assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity. | £249,600,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £169,877,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OUR TIME</strong> [Charity number: [1196343](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196343)]<br>OUR TIME SUPPORTS CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE AFFECTED BY PARENTAL MENTAL ILLNESS. WE RAISE AWARENESS OF THIS GROUP TO GAIN THEIR RECOGNITION WITHIN PUBLIC POLICY. WE CREATE SUPPORTIVE ENVIRONMENTS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND FAMILIES, WHERE THEY CAN RECEIVE EXPLANATIONS AND BUILD RESILIENCE. WE SUPPORT PROFESSIONALS WORKING WITH YOUNG PEOPLE TO BETTER UNDERSTAND THIS ISSUE. | £341,475
<strong>Scottish Women's Convention</strong> [Charity number: [SC039852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039852)]<br>3.1 to promote the equality of women with men and to work towards the elimination of prejudice and discrimination against women. and  3.2 to promote citizenship and civic responsibility among Scottish women by providing opportunities for them to engage with and influence policy development and generally to participate in Scottish civic life. and 3.3 to advance the education of the general public, politicians and policy makers on all matters relating to gender equality and the relative position of men and women and Scottish society | £203,217
<strong>CHILDREN IN CROSSFIRE</strong> [Charity number: [NI101412](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101412)]<br>Our programmes in Tanzania and Ethiopia focus on giving children the best start in life through early childhood development and meeting wider needs. Successes have included: Tanzania: 8,946 children in 86 pre-primary classes received improved quality of early years’ education 1,500 children experienced quality education in 15 pre-schools 99 government teachers were trained in early childhood education The quality of teaching in pre-primary classes improved from 21% to 60% Media coverage of issues affecting young children across all 26 regions of Tanzania Helped revitalise the ECD sector through leading the establishment of a National ECD Task Team to guide policy development and implementation for 8.7m Tanzanian children under 7 years Ethiopia: Emergency food relief provided to 120 vulnerable families in Addis Ababa 50 people successfully employed in income generating activities that will sustain their families 240 health extension workers provided nutritional support to a population of 1.1 million people Provided access to safe water to 3,000 people in Wolisso 366 severely malnourished children were given lifesaving therapeutic feeding Our international is supported by an education programme in Ireland: Up to 15,000 people directly impacted through a public awareness programme Over 42,180 students engaged through the training of 179 teachers and 319 Initial Teacher Education (ITE) students | £2,673,428
<strong>Friends of St Ninians Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC040794](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040794)]<br>To advance the education of the public in Orkney and elsewhere, in the history of St Ninian's Church and the historical, cultural and social development of the local community. To use the St Ninian's building as a community resource for religious, artistic, cultural, educational and social activities. Maintain the building of St Ninian's Church and preserve its heritage for the benefit of the community. Maintain the building's integrity as a place of worship. Establish and maintain a community space for activities including musical events, craft and educational workshops, exhibitions and social functions. To carry out any other activities in furtherance of the above objects. | £5,070
<strong>THE FOOTBALL LEAGUE (COMMUNITY) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1132689](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132689)]<br>to promote physical education; to promote community participation in football and sports capable of improving physical healthto assist in providing facilities for sport and recreation of such persons who have need for such facilities in the interest of social welfare.to advance the education of the public and to provide opportunities for them to develop their full capabilities. | £12,322,102
<strong>BACE</strong> [Charity number: [1142445](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142445)]<br>To advance the education of the public in poor communities in The Gambia in particular but not exclusively, by providing learning materials to established schools and building new schools where they do not currently exist.The relief of sickness and the preservation of health amongst people residing permanently or temporarily, particularly but not exclusively in The Gambia, West Africa. | £23,002
<strong>Scottish Churches Housing Action (subject to insolvency proceedings)</strong> [Charity number: [SC022214](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022214)]<br>To encourage the practical support of housing projects by Church agencies and parishes as an integral part of their outreach and pastoral ministry.  To stimulate a Christian response to housing policy issues. To provide assistance and support in developing volunteer projects to assist homeless people and promote skills for independent living. To encourage the use of Church owned property for affordable housing, where it is no longer required for Church use. To provide educational material for churches or other groups. To raise funds for its work from grant making bodies and to work or provide funds for other related organisations within Scotland where appropriate. To work with Churches of all denominations, Housing Associations and other organisations with similar aims. | £149,000
<strong>Tranent & District Community Sports Club [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC046752](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046752)]<br>The organisation?s purpose is to advance public participation in sport. This will be achieved by. Assisting and supporting local sporting clubs to achieve sustainability within each particular sport.  Encourage an ?access for all? policy from all member clubs, particularly within the junior and disabled sport areas.  To foster and develop junior and adult sport through partnership working with schools, associations and voluntary groups.  To promote and encourage sporting clubs to become members of the club. | 
<strong>Maritime Belfast Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI104962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104962)]<br>Titanic Foundation developed and opened Titanic Belfast on the site where RMS Titanic was built over 100 years ago. The attraction offers a unique 9 gallery education and learning experience of Belfast’s maritime and industrial heritage and since opening in 2012 has welcomed over 2.5 million visitors. In April 2015, we took on responsibility for SS Nomadic. The last surviving White Star line ship and tender to RMS Titanic, SS Nomadic is the largest Titanic artefact in the world. To safeguard its preservation, Titanic Foundation has integrated it into the overall Titanic Belfast experience. Titanic Foundation has appointed an operator for both attractions and manages this relationship via a formalised operator agreement. Titanic Foundation is responsible for overseeing the longer term future development of both Titanic Belfast and SS Nomadic. Titanic Foundation is active in preserving Belfast's maritime and industrial heritage and making it accessible to the wider public. Since 2012, Titanic Foundation has been working towards saving the Titanic Drawing Offices. This is a listed building on the ‘at risk’ register, where RMS Titanic and over 1000 other ships were designed. We have secured funding from HLF to preserve the Drawing Offices and open up the key heritage spaces to the public by the end of 2017. We are also in the process of saving one of the world's rarest lighthouse optics, Mew Island Optic. We are campaigning and raising funds to save this important piece of Belfast's maritime history and display it in Titanic Quarter's public realm. We are developing educational programmes for both the Drawing Offices and Mew Island Optic. Titanic Foundation also delivers an annual engagement programme to connect the wider public to our maritime and industrial heritage in Titanic Quarter i.e. walking tours, maritime exhibitions and demonstrations. | £2,545,692
<strong>KNOWLEDGE FOR GROWTH</strong> [Charity number: [1091758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091758)]<br>Policy advisement,  Volunteer medical care , medical education, | £350
