# Grants to organisations `CA202`

Grants to organisations is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) categoryand the Grant making subcategory.

9,362 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.61% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((mak(e|ing)|provide|provision of|giving( of)?)s? grants|charitable grants|grant-? ?making|support charitable institutions|grants to|provide funds|makes donations to|grant giving|Financial contributions)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b(grants to individuals)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,706 | 5.19%
£10k - £100k | 3,016 | 4.31%
£100k - £250k | 761 | 3.45%
£250k - £500k | 400 | 3.70%
£500k - £1m | 290 | 4.34%
£1m - £10m | 482 | 5.36%
Over £10m | 93 | 4.28%
Total | 8,748 | 4.56%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 8,874 | 5.18%
oscr | 376 | 1.52%
ccni | 112 | 1.56%
Total | 9,362 | 4.61%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHARITIES AID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [268369](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268369)]<br>The Charities Aid Foundation exists to accelerate progress in society towards a fair and sustainable future for all. We work at the centre of the giving world, to drive greater and more impactful giving through tailored, innovative and strategic services for individual and corporate donors, and to help social purpose organisations to build their resilience and do more of their life-changing work | £1,194,823,000
<strong>THE ARTS COUNCIL OF ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1036733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1036733)]<br>Arts Council England works to get great art to everyone by championing, developing and investing in artistic experiences that enrich people's lives.  As the national development agency for the arts we support a range of artistic activities, acting as an independent body at arm's length from government.  'Achieving great art for everyone' is our 10-year strategic framework for the arts. | £803,065,402
<strong>CANCER RESEARCH UK</strong> [Charity number: [1089464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089464)]<br>Cancer Research UK is dedicated to saving lives through research. Our mission is to prevent, control and cure cancer through our ground-breaking research and in the last 40 years our work has helped double survival rates. But there is more work to be done. The only charity fighting over 200 types of cancer, we rely on every pound donated to help get us closer to beating cancer. | £684,207,447
<strong>Cancer Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC041666](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041666)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to protect and promote the health of the public in particular by research into the nature, causes, diagnosis, prevention, treatment and cure of all forms of cancer, including the development of findings of research into practical applications for the prevention, treatment and cure of cancer and in furtherance of that primary object, to provide information and raise public understanding of such matters. | £684,207,447
<strong>LLOYD'S REGISTER FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1145988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145988)]<br>Lloyd's Register Foundation promotes safety and education. Most of the consolidated income is attributable to the Lloyd's Register Group, a trading group that distributes profit to the Foundation. It is received dividends and not the consolidated trading income that is available to the Foundation. The trading group is a 'Social Investment' that also furthers the Foundation's charitable aims. | £572,056,000
<strong>WELLCOME TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [210183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210183)]<br>Wellcome exists to improve health by helping great ideas to thrive.We support researchers, we take on big health challenges, we campaign for better science, and we help everyone get involved with science and health research. We are a politically and financially independent foundation. | £569,497,051
<strong>British Heart Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC039426](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039426)]<br>The objects for which the Foundation is established are: to attack and defeat diseases and conditions of the heart and circulation and other diseases illness or conditions, by undertaking and promoting research for the public benefit into their cause , diagnosis, treatment and prevention, promoting their diagnosis, treatment and prevention, educating the public and alleviating suffering and promoting the welfare of persons afflicted and those who care for such persons | £398,900,000
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £398,900,000
<strong>THE ORMISTON TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1164358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164358)]<br>Ormiston Trust supports children and their families by way of grants to Ormiston organisations and the sponsorship of Multi Academy Trusts. Four core values underpin our work: Nurture; Empower; Innovate; and Impact. | £338,987,000
<strong>THE ERIC WRIGHT CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1002966](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002966)]<br>The Trust is a general purpose charity with a particular interest in supporting young people and the elderly in the North West of England | £308,912,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NIALLS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1174677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174677)]<br>To advance the education of the public in general in the treatment and cure of spinal injuries by providing grants to promote research for the public benefit in all aspects of that subject and to publish the useful results. | £681,107
<strong>PHILAMONIC TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1069432](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069432)]<br>Philamonic Trust is a small grant giving family charity. It makes grants to a varied range of charitable bodies and groups. In particular it funds innovative projects seeking to promote radical change rather than sticking plaster solutions. | £18,671
<strong>LILLAH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1194127](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194127)]<br>We are committed to providing relief of poverty, assistance in the provision of education and helthcare. Relief for those in need because of youth, age, ill-health, disability, or financial hardship, in particular, but not exclusively by making grants for equipment, services and facilities including shelter, food, clean drinking water, clothing and medicines for benefit of the said persons. | £12,695
<strong>GLOUCESTERSHIRE FEDERATION OF GARDENING SOCIETIES</strong> [Charity number: [257391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257391)]<br>Offers advice, help and support to Societies/Clubs who are interested in all aspects of gardening and horticulture.Trains novice Judges and provides on going training for existing Judges of Horticultural Shows.Provides grants to Schools and others running Gardening Projects.Gives prizes for School Gardening Competitions. | £8,086
<strong>MARYAM TRUST UK</strong> [Charity number: [1207570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207570)]<br>(1) THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE ISLAMIC FAITH IN COVENTRY AND THE SURROUNDING AREA, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, BY THE PROVISION OF A PLACE OF WORSHIP AND ISLAMIC EDUCATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEACHINGS OF THE QURAN AND THE TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET MUHAMMAD (PBUH), AS INTERPRETED AND ACCEPTED BY THE AHLE-SUNNAH WAL-JAMAA-AH SCHOOL OF THOUGHT;(2) THE RELIEF OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, EITHER GENERALLY OR INDIVIDUALLY, OF PEOPLE LIVING IN COVENTRY AND THE SURROUNDING AREA AND WORLDWIDE, IN PARTICULAR, THOUGH NOT EXCLUSIVELY, MAKING GRANTS OF MONEY FOR PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR ITEMS, SERVICES OR FACILITIES;(3) FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT TO PROMOTE THE EDUCATION OF PEOPLE IN COVENTRY AND THE SURROUNDING AREA IN PARTICULAR, THOUGH NOT EXCLUSIVELY, BY THE PROVISION OF A SUPPLEMENTARY SCHOOL;(4) TO ADVANCE IN LIFE AND RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE THROUGH:(A) THE PROVISION OF RECREATIONAL AND LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES PROVIDED IN THE INTEREST OF SOCIAL WELFARE, DESIGNED TO IMPROVE THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE;(B) PROVIDING SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS. | £9,579
<strong>Sufi Festivals</strong> [Charity number: [SC047975](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047975)]<br>4 The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: 4.1 The advancement of education by means of, but not exclusively, through the provision or facilitation of educational activities, workshops, training seminars, lectures, exhibitions, conferences, festivals, gatherings and other activities as determined from time to time by the Trustees. 4.2 The advancement of religion by means of, but not exclusively, the provision or facilitation of educational activities, workshops, training seminars, conferences, festivals, gatherings and other activities as determined from time to time by the Trustees in accordance with the teachings of the Holy Qu’ran and the Sunnah of Holy Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon Him), conforming to the interpretations and accepted views of the Ahle Sunnah Wa Al-Jammah who respect all of the companions of Holy Prophet Muhammad (peace be upon Him), who follow one of the four recognised major schools of Islamic Law and who accept Tasawwuf (Sufism) to be an important aspect of Islamic teaching. 4.3 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science by means of, but not exclusively, through the provision or facilitation of educational activities, workshops, training seminars, lectures, exhibitions, conferences, festivals, gatherings and other activities as determined from time to time by the Trustees.   4.4 The promotion of religious or racial harmony by means of, but not exclusively, through the provision or facilitation of educational activities, workshops, training seminars, lectures, exhibitions, conferences, festivals, gatherings and other activities as determined from time to time by the Trustees 4.5 The relief of those in need including those experiencing financial hardship, distress and suffering particularly amongst poor people and other people in need, by means of, but not exclusively, through making grants or loans to provide or pay for items, equipment, services and facilities, including the provision or assistance in the provision of food and clothing for the benefit of the public  | £105,018
<strong>HUMANITY FOR ALL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1207213](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207213)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:(1) THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS AND PRESERVATION OF GOOD HEALTH IN THE UK AND NIGERIA, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH THE PROVISION OF GRANTS FOR SERVICES, EQUIPMENT, MEDICINES FOR MEDICAL DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT.(2) THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY IN THE UK AND NIGERIA, BY PROVIDING GRANTS, ITEMS AND SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS IN NEED AND/OR CHARITIES, OR OTHER ORGANISATIONS WORKING TO PREVENT OR RELIEVE POVERTY AND ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF EDUCATION, TRAINING AND ALL THE NECESSARY SUPPORT DESIGNED TO ENABLE INDIVIDUALS TO GENERATE A SUSTAINABLE INCOME AND BE SELF SUFFICIENT. | 
<strong>THE OADBY VILLAGE HALL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [228144](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-228144)]<br>GRANT MAKING CHARITY FOR EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE PURPOSES FOR THE GENERAL BENEFIT OF THE INHABITANTS OF OADBY, LEICESTERSHIRE AND THE NEIGHBOURHOOD THEREOF FOR WHICH PROVISION IS NOT MADE OUT OF RATES, TAXES OR OTHER PUBLIC FUNDS. | £18,467
<strong>SEATHWAITE SCHOOL HOUSE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1207457](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207457)]<br>1)  To provide funds to help restore, conserve, maintain and improve the fabric, furnishings and fittings of Holy Trinity church, Seathwaite; 2)  The prevention or relief of poverty among persons resident in the town of Seathwaite by making grants of money  or providing or paying for items or services calculated to r | £6,427
<strong>THE ROTARY HOLIDAYS FOR CHILDREN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [200722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-200722)]<br>Grants to Rotary Clubs to enable them to provide holidays for children and young people who are under 18 years of age and who are in need of financial assistance. | £11,128
