# Grants to individuals `CA201`

Grants to individuals is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) categoryand the Grant making subcategory.

1,157 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.57% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((grants|donations) to individuals?|financial assistance (to|for) parishioners?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 619 | 0.84%
£10k - £100k | 319 | 0.46%
£100k - £250k | 71 | 0.34%
£250k - £500k | 32 | 0.32%
£1m - £10m | 26 | 0.30%
£500k - £1m | 11 | 0.17%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.24%
Total | 1,083 | 0.57%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,126 | 0.66%
oscr | 22 | 0.09%
ccni | 9 | 0.13%
Total | 1,157 | 0.57%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SIMON GIBSON CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [269501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269501)]<br>Makes grants to other registered charities, either national charities or local charities in South Wales, Suffolk, Norfolk or Cambridgeshire and Hertfordshire. No grants to individuals | £74,505,325
<strong>HELP FOR HEROES</strong> [Charity number: [1120920](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120920)]<br>We work closely with the Armed Forces, other Service Charities and organisations to provide direct,practical support for our wounded, injured and sick via Help for Heroes Recovery Centres across the UK, grants to individuals, grants to other organisations and the Help for Heroes fellowships (the Band of Brothers and Band of Sisters). | £20,395,991
<strong>GamCare</strong> [Charity number: [SC050547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050547)]<br>The Charity's Objects are:  3.1.1 the advancement of education, training and information on the social impact of gambling through the provision of a gambling neutral national centre that delivers services that address the issues, and by making grants to individuals and organisations whose work addresses the social impact of gambling.  3.1.2 to advance education into the social impact of gambling through research and to develop best practice by individuals and organisations working with these issues through the provision of its own services and through the support, encouragement and evaluation of relevant programmes and projects. and  3.1.3 the relief of poverty and suffering by those individuals who have a gambling dependency or who are affected by them through the provision of counselling and treatment programmes and through the setting and evaluation of standards for those individuals and organisations that provide care for these people. 3.1.4 Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £20,101,625
<strong>The Connolly Foundation (UK) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [1109135](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109135)]<br>Grants to individuals made on recommendation by schools and colleges.Grants for capital projects in areas within the Charity's objectives. | £15,676,462
<strong>THE DOLPHIN SQUARE CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1110090](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110090)]<br>The Foundation assists people, who live or work in Westminster and who are unable to access the housing market without assistance, by investing in social rented housing and affordable home ownership schemes. It does not make grants to individuals. It will however make grants to organisations, whose work assists its intended beneficiaries. | £15,651,990
<strong>ASCB CHARITABLE FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1123854](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123854)]<br>The ASCB meets its objectives by making an annual grant to the 44 sports associations/unions. Making grants from the Army Sports Lottery (ASL). Making grants to individual sportsmen/women. Making grants for garrison/units for sports facilities/infrastructure. | £6,738,550
<strong>McSence Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC016874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016874)]<br>I. To prevent and relieve poverty by training for work skills, up-skilling the community through training and development to enhance employment opportunities, encouraging fair trade, self employment and entrepreneurial skills and by providing direct grants to individuals or constituted groups within the community who are in need. II. To improve education by operating training programmes and working with schools, colleges and other educational providers to promote and provide educational opportunities for community members. III. To advance community development by the management of community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general following principles of sustainable development, where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. IV. To advance community development through regeneration of the community by the maintenance or improvement of the physical and economic infrastructure and by assisting people who are at a disadvantage because of their economic circumstances. V. To provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community and following principles of sustainable development, by operating community owned facilities. VI. To advance rural and urban regeneration of the community following principles of sustainable development by developing and managing community land and built environment assets. VII. To advance the environmental, cultural and/or historical knowledge of the community through the education of its members. VIII. To promote civic responsibility within the community by the advancement of environmental protection or improvement including preservation, and conservation of the natural environment, the promotion of sustainable development, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the community.  | £5,667,928
<strong>RACING WELFARE</strong> [Charity number: [1084042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084042)]<br>The charity provides support for those working in or retired from the horseracing and thoroughbred industry including: provision of occupational health and mental health services; a 24 hour support line; advice and guidance; community events for working and retired staff; grants to individuals and organisations; housing; career advice and training support. | £5,031,142
<strong>GOVERNORS OF THE CHARITY FOR RELIEF OF THE POOR WIDOWS AND CHILDREN OF CLERGYMEN (COMMONLY CALLED CLERGY SUPPORT TRUST)</strong> [Charity number: [207736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207736)]<br>Clergy Support Trust, formerly Sons & Friends of the Clergy, is a clergy support charity established in 1655. Our mission is to support Anglican clergy families through difficult times, whether caused by financial hardship, health problems or other difficulties. We do this mainly through cash grants to individual beneficiaries and through working with other clergy wellbeing organisations. | £4,641,398
<strong>LINCOLNSHIRE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1196448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196448)]<br>To advance education, to promote the preservation and protection of good health, both mental and physical, and to relieve poverty and sickness within the community of the county of Lincolnshire, in particular by the making of grants to individuals and organisations in furtherance of said charitable purposes. | £3,487,576


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SAMUEL WHITE AND FRANCIS WILLOUGHBY CHARITY FOR RELIEF IN NEED</strong> [Charity number: [1058797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058797)]<br>Makes grants to individuals and organisations within the terms of the Charity. | £18,058
<strong>ALICE ROWLINSON'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [221951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221951)]<br>Makes grants to individuals | £79
<strong>THE CHOSEN GENERATION ASSEMBLY RCCG</strong> [Charity number: [1151040](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151040)]<br>? MAKES GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS ? MAKES GRANTS TO ORGANISATIONS ? PROVIDES OTHER FINANCE ? PROVIDES HUMAN RESOURCES ? PROVIDES BUILDINGS / FACILITIES / OPEN SPACE ? PROVIDES SERVICES ? PROVIDES ADVOCACY / ADVICE / INFORMATION ? ACTS AS AN UMBRELLA OR RESOURCE BODY | £44,537
<strong>THE HILLERY FAMILY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1199083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199083)]<br>We offer wellbeing support groups and activities with the aim of providing all people with a foundation of good health especially as it relates to emotional and mental wellbeing. Our focus is on creating community and empowering and teaching people how to have impactful and meaningful connections as a precursor to good health. We make awards and grants to individuals and organisations. | £124,018
<strong>REDBOURN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1169027](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169027)]<br>The charity looks to support the community in the Parish of Redbourn by making grants to individuals, organisations, and community projects to enhance the general welfare of the residents. We support families with special needs and provide grants for educational purposes, for activities for the lonely and elderly, for youth groups, and for developing facilities in the village. | £6
<strong>LATTICES</strong> [Charity number: [1203508](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1203508)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO AREA) THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF POVERTY, HARDSHIP OR DISTRESS WITHIN THE UNITED KINGDOM BY MAKING GRANTS TO INDIVIDUALS, CHARITIES OR OTHER ORGANISATIONS WORKING TO PREVENT POVERTY AND NEED. B) THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION OF THE JEWISH ORTHODOX RELIGION THROUGH THE PROVISION OF GRANTS TO EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENTS.C) THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE ORTHODOX JEWISH RELIGION WITHIN THE UNITED KINGDOM FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC, BY RAISING AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING OF RELIGIOUS BELIEFS AND PRACTICES. D) THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUCH OTHER PURPOSES AS ARE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC AND ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE UNDER THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES | 
<strong>DU ALUMNI ASSOCIATION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1194560](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194560)]<br>Makes grants to individuals, organisations; Provides education, advocacy, advice & information; Bursaries, scholarships, grants and other resources for education; Advancement of education and research, talent sharing, etc. | £43,491
<strong>THE CHESTERTON HOUSE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1200466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200466)]<br>The charity will make grants to individuals and organisations whom the trustees consider are worthy of support in accordance with the charitable objectives. These are likely to include (but not be restricted to) charities operating in the local area (North Leicestershire), and will be able to demonstrate a clear need and effective use of any grants made. Applicants will be expected to demonstrate | £6,083
<strong>MIDLANDS ILEOSTOMY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1035577](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1035577)]<br>We provide a three monthly news bulletin magazine for our members in the Midlands area.We make grants to individuals and provide care and counselling services to people with special needs e.g. people with an ileostomy and we raise funds to cover our activities. | £15,264
<strong>SCALDWELL PARISH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [205282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205282)]<br>General Charitable Purposes.  Makes grants to individuals (includes Loans).  Makes grants to organisations (Incl. schools, charities etc.) in the Parish of Scaldwell. | £1,749
