# Grant making `CA200`

Grant making is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charitable activities](CA.md) categoryand the Grant making subcategory.

19,062 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 9.41% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(grants?|gifts of money|donations to|financial (support|assistance)|provides? funding)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 8,111 | 10.99%
£10k - £100k | 5,909 | 8.58%
£100k - £250k | 1,496 | 7.08%
£250k - £500k | 720 | 7.07%
£500k - £1m | 494 | 7.75%
£1m - £10m | 821 | 9.48%
Over £10m | 150 | 7.14%
Total | 17,701 | 9.26%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 17,564 | 10.29%
oscr | 1,085 | 4.40%
ccni | 413 | 5.74%
Total | 19,062 | 9.41%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ORMISTON TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1164358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164358)]<br>Ormiston Trust supports children and their families by way of grants to Ormiston organisations and the sponsorship of Multi Academy Trusts. Four core values underpin our work: Nurture; Empower; Innovate; and Impact. | £338,887,000
<strong>University Of Dundee</strong> [Charity number: [SC015096](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015096)]<br>To provide instruction in such branches of learning as the (A) University may think fit, whether for members of the University or for others, and to make provision for research and for the advancement and dissemination of knowledge in such a manner as the University may determine. (B) To prescribe in the Ordinances of the University the conditions under which any person may be admitted as a student of the University or to any particular course of study provided by the University. (C) To grant, under conditions laid down in the Statutes or Ordinances, a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic award to any person who shall have pursued a course of study approved by the University and shall have passed the examinations or other tests prescribed by the University. The advancement of education. | £332,717,000
<strong>UBS UK Donor-Advised Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [1153551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153551)]<br>MAKING GRANTS TO UK CHARITIES | £234,903,000
<strong>University Of Stirling</strong> [Charity number: [SC011159](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011159)]<br>The University shall be a body for the purposes of teaching, examining and the promotion of research and shall, subject to the provisions of this Our Charter and the Statutes of the University, have the following objects and powers:- (a) To provide instruction in such branches of learning as the University may think fit, whether for members of the University or for others, and to make provision for research and for the preservation, advancement and dissemination of knowledge in such manner as the University may determine. (b) To prescribe in its Ordinances the conditions under which persons may be admitted as students of the University or of any particular course of study provided by the University. (c) To grant, under conditions laid down in its Statutes or Ordinances, Degrees, Diplomas, Certificates and other academic distinctions to persons who shall have pursued a course of study approved by the University and shall have passed the examinations or other tests prescribed by the University. (d) To grant, under conditions laid down in its Statutes or Ordinances, Degrees to any persons who hold office in the University or who shall have carried on research therein. (e) To grant Diplomas, Certificates or other academic distinctions to persons who have pursued a course of study approved by the University under conditions laid down by the University in its Statutes or Ordinances. (f) To grant to approved persons, under conditions laid down in its Statutes or Ordinances, Honorary Degrees or other academic distinctions. (g) To accept the examinations and periods of study passed by students of the University at other Universities or places of learning as equivalent to such examination and periods of study in the University as the Academic Council of the University may determine, and to withdraw such acceptance at any time. | £169,700,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL FINANCE FACILITY FOR IMMUNISATION COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1115413](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115413)]<br>IFFIm's primary purpose is to function as a financing vehicle in order to support the GAVI Alliance in accelerating the provision of charitable funds for vaccination and health systems strengthening projects in developing countries. IFFIm is funded by grants pledged by U.K. and international governments. IFFIm is unable to accept donations from members of the public. | £153,259,961
<strong>WESTON-SUPER-MARE LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1182704](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182704)]<br>General Charitable Purposes including giving grants to young or elderly people, people with disabilities and the general public. Also making grants to other organisations and  taking part in other charitable activities. | £145,413,440
<strong>DOGS TRUST LEGACY</strong> [Charity number: [227523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227523)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accomodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms.Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices.Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £136,045,330
<strong>STEWARDSHIP SERVICES (UKET) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [234714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234714)]<br>Stewardship's range of giving account services facilitate tax effective giving to charitable causes in the UK and beyond. Our range of legal and financial support services to Christian charities are detailed in the Trustees' Annual Report. | £119,565,492
<strong>AKO FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1151815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151815)]<br>The Foundation's main activity is to make grants to UK charities and for charitable purposes elsewhere in the world.  The priority areas for its grants are initiatives and projects which improve education, promote the arts and combat the climate emergency. The Foundation does not seek applications for grants and will not make grants in response to unsolicited applications received. | £117,443,000
<strong>THE MASTER CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1139904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139904)]<br>Grant making trust. | £113,731,070


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE WESTCOUNTRY HOROLOGICAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1082255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082255)]<br>THE TRUST AIMS PRINCIPALLY TO OFFER FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO DESERVING CASES PRIMARILY IN THE SOUTH WEST WHO WISH TO UNDERTAKE OR CONTINUE EDUCATIONAL TRAINING TOWARDS GAINING HOROLOGICAL SKILLS. ASSISTANCE WOULD NORMALLY BE IN THE FORM OF A CASH SUM OR POSSIBLY A SHORT TERM INTEREST FREE LOAN. THE TRUST WORKS CLOSELY WITH THE BRITISH HOROLOGICAL INST. SW BRANCH WHO GENEROUSLY GIVE MUCH SUPPORT. | £233
<strong>THE BRUE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1147054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147054)]<br>The charity operates through making grants, prioritising those projects that focus on educating individuals on a variety of religions, creating an understanding of different religions and promoting the harmonisation or integration of different religions.  The charity also makes grants to charities that support children's cancer patients and their families, cancer and stroke treatment and research. | £31,973
<strong>EDUCATIONAL CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [527774](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-527774)]<br>Making Grants to schools and persons under 25 years of age resident in Tetford and Salmonby for educational purposes | £5,802
<strong>CHERYL'S TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1141771](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141771)]<br>The Cheryl Cole Foundation is a grant-making charity. It works across England and Wales, though with a particular focus in the North-East. The objects of the charity are to improve the conditions and life of people by advancing education and preventing poverty through advice and training | 
<strong>Craigavon Area Talking Newspaper Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102916)]<br>Craigavon Area Talking Newspaper Association (CATNA) is based in Portadown and caters for Listeners in Portadown, Lurgan and as far away as Benburb, Armagh, Dungannon, Derrytrasna, Dromara and Moira. CATNA has over 100 listeners who are mainly over the age of 65 and are blind or partially sighted. We provide a weekly recording of news gathered from the Portadown Times and Lurgan Mail. "Sound News", is then copied onto USB (Memory stick/pen drive) and delivered to the Library in Armagh which makes copies of the recordings for distribution to our listeners. Our weekly magazine "Sounds Friendly" is also distributed along with “Sound News”. The USB’s are put into distinctive blue envelopes and the wallets are delivered by, first class post on a Saturday morning, free of charge by the Post Office. Listeners use small CD players provided free of charge by CATNA. After listening the USB is then posted back in the same wallet. Over 50 volunteers assist with the news and magazine production at our studio in Portadown and each news recording lasts about an hour. There is no joining fee and listeners receive the recordings free of charge. CATNA is funded totally by grants and donations. Part of a network of Talking Newspapers operating in Northern Ireland and beyond, the Association strives to promote social inclusion to those persons who would otherwise be isolated from events taking place in their community. | £1,102
<strong>Swan Youth Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC007622](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007622)]<br>(a) To advance the education of young persons in Berwickshire by the purchase of books or other educational material, including the provision of play equipment, for the study and use of such persons and the award of Scholarships of an academic or vocational nature on such terms and conditions as the Trustees shall from time to time determine. (b) To further the expressed charitable aims/objects of any youth organisations within Berwickshire which have been accepted as charities for tax purposes by making payments, grants or loans to such organisations. (c) For the benefit of young persons in Berwickshire to consider applications from and to make payments, grants or loans to such members of youth organisations in Berwickshire (such organisations being recognised as charities for tax purposes) as may make application to the Trust for grants etc to enable or assist them to attend meetings, camps, jamborees, training sessions or held in connection with, or allied or referable in any manner or way, to the Youth organisation of which the applicant shall be a member. (d) To provide appropriate financial assistance towards the training of young persons in such fields as youth leadership or similar associated activities, particularly where in the opinion of the Trustees the resultant skills acquired will benefit the community at large in Berwickshire or individual communities. | £115
<strong>LOTHERSDALE SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1048269](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048269)]<br>The charity supports the provision of education at Lothersdale Primary School, providing financial assistance towards the ongoing activities of the school and contributes towards the on-going development of resources and facilities. | £4,950
<strong>WARRINGTON ANIMAL WELFARE</strong> [Charity number: [1057149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1057149)]<br>Providing education and financial assistance for the neutering of pet animals.  Rescuing and rehoming animals in need. | £207,967
<strong>The Paula O'Brien Foundation </strong> [Charity number: [SC044152](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044152)]<br>4 The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: 4.1 To provide relief of those in need by reason of financial hardship by providing grants towards funeral costs and the erection of headstones or grave markers.   | 
<strong>JAMES POWELL'S EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [525640](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-525640)]<br>Provides grants to students in post 16 education. Recipients must be resident in the Parish of Llantilio Crossenny. | £4,336
