# Playground `CC103`

Playground is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Childcare](CC.md) category.

843 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.42% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(play-? ?(ground|area))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 448 | 0.61%
£10k - £100k | 303 | 0.44%
£100k - £250k | 45 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 19 | 0.18%
£500k - £1m | 8 | 0.12%
£1m - £10m | 5 | 0.06%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 828 | 0.43%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 781 | 0.46%
ccni | 38 | 0.53%
oscr | 24 | 0.10%
Total | 843 | 0.42%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WINDMILL HILL CITY FARM LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [277287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277287)]<br>Windmill Hill City Farm provides a range of educational, recreational and therapeutic services and facilities to the local community including a farm and community gardens, a cafe, a variety of courses, activities and facilities for children and young people (a day-care nursery and playground), older peoples groups, and services for people with mental health issues or learning difficulties. | £2,326,158
<strong>CORAM'S FIELDS AND THE HARMSWORTH MEMORIAL PLAYGROUND</strong> [Charity number: [302963](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302963)]<br>An open access 7 acre children's playground and children's centre with an after school club and holiday activities and sports programme for children up to 16 years and a youth centre for 13-19 year olds.  1000 children daily in summer from diverse local community of south Camden. Grade II listed site formerly the Foundling Hospital site. Adults must have a child with them to come in. | £2,264,867
<strong>Family And Community Development West Lothian</strong> [Charity number: [SC000843](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC000843)]<br>To promote the benefit of the inhabitants of West Lothian and environs and in particular parents and children by associating with the residents, voluntary organisations and local authorities in a common effort to advance education and to provide facilities in the interest of social welfare for recreation and leisure time occupation with the object of improving the conditions of life for the said inhabitants. To secure the establishment of family centre premises for education, training, childcare and community business development, including The Range Adventure Playground to develop activities as described above. | £1,505,881
<strong>Clan Donald Lands Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC007862](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007862)]<br>3.1 Operating and maintaining the Clan Museum on the Clan Lands in the Island of Skye for the purpose of fostering Clan sentiment and interest and the encouragement of education of members of the Clan and the general public in the history of the Highland Clans and Clan Donald in particular and the collection and preservation of records and traditions and objects of historic interest bearing on the history of Clan Donald. 3.2 The relief of those who are in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and in selecting those individuals who may benefit from such assistance the Trustees shall be entitled to take into account an individual's connection with the Clan Donald (and its septs) and also his or her place of residence. 3.3 Providing funds to assist in the education of Clansmen, to provide scholarships at schools and universities for the sons and daughters of Clansmen. 3.4 Encouraging the advancement of education and the arts, heritage and culture by promoting the general public's understanding and appreciation of the history and traditions of the Lordship of the Isles, the Highland Clans and Clan Donald in particular.  3.5 Providing a recreational facility for the enjoyment of the general public through the management of the Trust's land and buildings and by providing, maintaining and making available facilities such as the gardens at Armadale Castle, a children's play area and a network of tracks and paths.  | £1,277,313
<strong>OASIS CHILDREN'S VENTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1019626](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1019626)]<br>Provision of Outdoor activities to vulnerable underprivileged children in the Lambeth area consisting of a Nature Garden, Karting Project and Adventure Playground Project. | £1,200,797
<strong>HOLYWELL LEISURE CENTRE/CANOLFAN HAMDDEN TREFFYNNON</strong> [Charity number: [1170729](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170729)]<br>We provide for public use a wide range of facilities for various competitive sports, personal fitness, leisure, recreational and learning activities based around its : Swimming pools, Gymnasium, Sports hall, Community/Dance studio, Cafe, Soft Play area, Library, Meeting rooms and Health Suite  together with access to Ysgol Treffynnon High School Sports hall & 4G pitch. | £972,897
<strong>ELHAP</strong> [Charity number: [1077508](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077508)]<br>ELHAP offers adventure play to children, young people and adult with disabilities and special needs from North East London and Essex areas. It is ELHAPs aim and purpose to ensure that all our children and young people, regardless of ability or dis-ability, have the opportunity to access our adventure playground to have fun, be challenged and to enjoy themselves. | £874,925
<strong>PELTON COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1155121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155121)]<br>We are a registered charity whose objectives are to facilitate educational, training and leisure activities for the people of Pelton and surrounding areas. The Association occupies and manages Pelton Community Centre, which incorporates a purpose built Youth facility called Room 14, an outside Play Area, a Community Gym, IT Suite, a 320m2 Main Hall with full size stage and seven other rooms. | £740,794
<strong>WEST SILVERTOWN VILLAGE COMMUNITY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1049485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049485)]<br>Operates Britannia Village Hall including children's play area.Runs and supports community activities.Distributes free newsletter locally about charity/voluntary activities.Assists local community with consultation on planning and social issues. | £721,758
<strong>ACORN VENTURE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [516925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-516925)]<br>Wide range on animals to stroke and feed, animal petting pavilion, shop-selling home produce free range meat,eggs,ice cream, Cafe, plant sales, woodland walk, play area, horse rides/RDA, birthday party room hire, day care service for people with special needs, special events throughout the year i.e halloween night, xmas grotto. | £653,010


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HEAVEN'S PLAYGROUND ORG</strong> [Charity number: [1204172](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204172)]<br>Make and distribute Early Loss, Sibling and Memory Boxes.Make memorial keepsakes.Make and send Angel Cards (cards to or from a lost loved one)Graphics (including personalised) and support. | 
<strong>Charleston Village Hall</strong> [Charity number: [SC037211](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037211)]<br>The Trust Subjects comprising former School, former dwellinghouse for school teacher, hall, play area and other ground with ancillary buildings erected or to be erected thereon are dedicated and shall be held by us and our successors as Trustees of the Trust Subjects in all time coming for use by the inhabitants of Charleston and its environs without distinction of political, religious or other opinions, including use for meetings, lectures and classes and for other forms of recreation and leisure time occupation with the purpose of improving the conditions of life for the said inhabitants. | £14,372
<strong>BEKESBOURNE RECREATION GROUND CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [803166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803166)]<br>The recreation ground has a pavilion with changing rooms for both sexes , a disabled access lavatory as  well as a meeting room/kitchen.The pavilion is used for sporting and social purposes and can be hired by the public.On the ground there is one football pitch  and  a play area for youngsters with a basketball shooting court. There is seating for the many walkers and visitors  who use the area . | £10,444
<strong>NORTH HALL PLAYING FIELD WIDECOMBE</strong> [Charity number: [800355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-800355)]<br>We provide sports facilities for children and families in Widecombe in the Moor and surrounding districts. The provision at the present time  is for table tennis, tennis, hockey and a play area. | £1,071
<strong>STAVELEY VILLAGE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1201087](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201087)]<br>SVA owns and maintains Staveley Village Hall and Institute, 4 allotments, the Recreation Ground, its Pavilion and Children's Playground for the benefit of the residents of the parishes of Over Staveley, Nether Staveley and Hugill. The Hall, Institute and Pavilion are available for hire. The Recreation Ground and Children's playground are open to the public free of charge for non-commercial use. | £51,553
<strong>THE PORTER RECREATION GROUND CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [304276](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-304276)]<br>Children's playground in Kencot & Bowls Club in Broadwell | £278
<strong>Boarhills and Dunino Community Trust SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053861)]<br>The principal asset of BDCT SCIO is the Boarhills Green Space and neighbouring historic B listed doocot. Following the community purchase and restoration of these assets, the SCIO will seek to use them to the benefits of the local and wider community as follows: The provision of recreational facilities  BY • providing recreational facilities, maintaining the Green Space as an accessible and attractive space, open to all, 24/7. There is no children’s play area in the village and no public space where people can meet outside and sit together. The Green Space meets those needs and is already being used for village social events. Being next to the Fife Coastal Path, it is also used by walkers to sit and have their lunch.  The advancement of environmental improvement and protection BY • Organising community activities at the Green Space, for its care by volunteers and by providing training opportunities for related activities, such as hedge laying and fruit tree care which can be employed in the wider area • Encouraging interest and care of the local natural environment, by organising activities such as beach litter collection (working with the Fife Coast and Countryside Trust), bulb planting etc The advancement of heritage BY • Preserving the restored historic doocot. Now fully restored, it is open and fully and freely accessible. Being located right next to the Fife Coastal Path, it is a significant attraction to passing walkers, who also use the seating in the Green Space area.  • Using this doocot restoration project as the basis to develop other participative projects which will improve the understanding and appreciation of the local history of the area.  Public benefit will include providing opportunities for older members of the community to come together and share their memories. Examples already achieved under this heading are exhibitions prepared by the local community on the history of the doocots in this area, and the primary schools in Boarhills and Dunino. These were shown as part of the Doors Open Days celebrations.  Community Involvement The Community Trust has a membership comprising a large part of its area’s population and most of them have given their email address to the Trust.  As well as using this to inform members of Trust’s events it is also available to the  Boarhills and Dunino Community Council and to the Boarhills Village Hall SCIO to enable them to send relevant information. In a spread out community this is a very valuable resource, keeping people in touch with events and developments affecting the area. | 
<strong>WESTBOURNE PARISH ALLOTMENT FOR EXERCISE AND RECREATION</strong> [Charity number: [265105](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265105)]<br>This charity refers to the allotment of land on Monk's Hill in Westbourne, West Sussex, bought by Westbourne Parish Council in 1948 which it registered as a charity in 1974. Its intended use at all times is as a place for exercise and recreation for the inhabitants of the Parish of Westbourne and neighbourhood. It includes a large recreation ground and children's play area. | 
<strong>ST PAUL'S BECKENHAM PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1037127](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1037127)]<br>We are a church based pre-school, managed by a committee comprising parent and church representatives.  All our employed staff hold early years qualifications or equivalent and the team includes parent volunteers.  The facilities used by the pre-school include a large well-equipped hall and a dedicated outdoor play area. | £72,032
<strong>ST.AGNES ADVENTURE PLAYGROUND</strong> [Charity number: [1211282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1211282)]<br>1. TO FURTHER OR BENEFIT THE RESIDENTS OF ST AGNES IN ST PAULS, AND THE CITY OF BRISTOL, WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE OR OF POLITICAL, RELIGIOUS OR OTHER OPINIONS BY ASSOCIATING TOGETHER THE SAID RESIDENTS AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, VOLUNTARY AND OTHER ORGANISATIONS IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE RESIDENTS.2. TO ADVANCE IN LIFE AND RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE, IN ST AGNES IN ST PAULS AND THE CITY OF BRISTOL PRIMARILY THROUGH:(A) THE PROVISION OF RECREATIONAL AND LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES PROVIDED IN THE INTEREST OF SOCIAL WELFARE, DESIGNED TO IMPROVE THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE;(B) PROVIDING SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS. | 
