# Out of school club `CC102`

Out of school club is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Childcare](CC.md) category.

1,438 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.71% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((after|before)+[- ]school|out[- ]of[- ]school|breakfast[- ]club|holidays?[- ]club)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 208 | 0.29%
£10k - £100k | 518 | 0.74%
£100k - £250k | 349 | 1.58%
£250k - £500k | 143 | 1.32%
£500k - £1m | 93 | 1.39%
£1m - £10m | 47 | 0.52%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 1,361 | 0.71%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,148 | 0.67%
oscr | 204 | 0.82%
ccni | 86 | 1.20%
Total | 1,438 | 0.71%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ACORN EARLY YEARS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1145108](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145108)]<br>Early years care and education in day nurseries and out-of-school clubsForest Schools Training and development activities for early years practitioners | £13,168,610
<strong>INTOUNI</strong> [Charity number: [1118525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118525)]<br>IntoUniversity aims to address underachievement and social exclusion among young people by offering an integrated programme of out-of-school study, mentoring, aspirational coaching, personal support and, in partnership with universities, specially-devised FOCUS weeks, days and weekends. | £12,353,830
<strong>Berwickshire Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC042342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042342)]<br>2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. 2.3 to advance education for the public benefit including without limitation through the provision of nursery care and after school clubs  | £11,377,376
<strong>THE BENJAMIN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1124936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124936)]<br>Our aim is to provide high quality services and opportunities that significantly improve the lives of vulnerable children and young people. We provide advice, support, counselling, information, supported accommodation, positive activities, parenting support, out of school and youth projects and re-use schemes. | £8,682,482
<strong>YMCA DERBYSHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1049904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049904)]<br>YMCA Derbyshire is an organisation that aims to provide quality services for the benefit of homeless people & people at risk of social or educational exclusion. We provide supported accommodation, vocational training, information, advice & guidance & as a childcare provider offer out of school childcare provision,integrated playschemes for special educational needs and mainstream children. | £7,214,045
<strong>Amcol Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC039758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039758)]<br>In Scotland and elsewhere to make provision for child care, nursery and after school care for children of adults in full or part time education and thereby encourage adults into further education on a full or part time basis | £5,251,914
<strong>BERKHAMPSTEAD SCHOOL (CHELTENHAM) TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [325018](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-325018)]<br>The charity provides a caring and well rounded education to children aged between 3 & 11, ensuring an awareness of others & promoting citizenship. It is intended that pupils will achieve  their full potential academically as well as in music, art, drama & sport. After school activities are provided so that pupils can develop outside the main curriculum. | £4,544,780
<strong>WEST HOUSE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [528959](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-528959)]<br>The charity principally provides education and care for children. The charity also provides after school care and holiday clubs from 7.30am to 6pm and is open for 48 weeks of the year. | £4,251,469
<strong>WISDOM SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1142914](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142914)]<br>To establish and maintain  institutions as nurseries, weekend  schools, primary and secondary schools, colleges, and universities to promote the  advancement of education  of pupils at their schools and in out-of-school environments. | £3,594,415
<strong>ST BEDE'S CHILDCARE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1137866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137866)]<br>The charity provides high quality education and childcare recognised by Ofsted and several local authorities. St Bede's Childcare operates Full Day care nursery provision for children from 6 weeks to four years all year around, together with breakfast, after school and holiday care for 3 to 11 year olds. St Bede's Childcare is committed to supporting individual children and their families. | £3,029,061


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COOL KIDS @ CRADOC</strong> [Charity number: [1198810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198810)]<br>a) To provide the necessary facilities for the daily care, recreation and education of children out of school hours; andb) To advance the education and training of the persons in the provision of such care, education and recreational facilities. | £54,073
<strong>Cockburnspath After School Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC053900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053900)]<br>The aims of the Organisation are:  4.1 To provide safe care for school age children in Cockburnspath and neighbouring areas, normally, but not exclusively, outside school hours and school holidays. 4.2  Provide children with access to healthy learning experiences suited to the individual and group needs of those attending.  4.3 Liaise with parents/guardians of the children attending, or prospective attendees,  to ensure they have confidence in the support provided and have a voice/can contribute to the design of the service. 4.4 To provide volunteering opportunities for local people to become involved in the delivery of the service, gaining new skills and experience. 4.5  To provide other services that support children and families in the Cockburnspath area.   Objectives 5.1  The Organisation will take a child centred approach, respecting the individual needs of each user of the after school club. 5.2  Children and their parents or guardians will be encouraged to participate in the decision making with regard to the management, activities and programmes planned for the Organisation. 5.3  Staff will be suitably qualified and experienced in various aspects of childcare and play, with training being an ongoing feature of the service. 5.4  Equipment and toys provided will be regularly maintained and renewed, enabling children to access a variety of up-to-date play and learning opportunities. 5.5  The Organisation will fully utilise community resources within the locality and regularly access opportunities to visit other facilities during holidays, as part of the ongoing programme of education and learning experiences for children. 5.6  The Organisation will adhere to its Health and Safety policies that are in place. | 
<strong>EVANSTOWN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1076366](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076366)]<br>The Charity supports activities held at our Centre ranging from After School club to I.T. tuition,credit union, dancing, activities,  Keep Fit activities,Genealogy, Birthday parties,Community Events. | 
<strong>ST AIDAN'S CARE TEAM</strong> [Charity number: [1118043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118043)]<br>Provides playgroup, after school club, youth groups and community activities and education in the Harden/Leamore area of Walsall | £76,137
<strong>J.B.'S CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1060239](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060239)]<br>The activities of the charity are to provide the necessary facilities for the daily care, recreation and education of children during out of school hours and to advance the education and training of persons in the provision of such care, education and recreational facilities. | £81,413
<strong>LADY ZIA WERNHER SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1058779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058779)]<br>Children are provided with enabling environments, which support their significantly complex needs. Access is challenging and resources are purchased to support the children eg the outside environment where children learn through play, specialist chairs, and bicycles to support the physical curriculum. Also recording devices which enable their achievements to be shared and celebrated with parents. | £4,302
<strong>New Testament Pentecostal Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI100894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100894)]<br>Our Church as an organisation exists to advance the Christian faith in the following ways:- 1) Weekly worship services for members and non-members to present the teachings of the Bible and to provide opportunities for Christian response, including but not limited to public worship and prayer. The meetings are free of charge and open to all These services are held each Sunday morning & evening, Wednesday evening and Friday morning 2) Weekly childrens' Bible Club (Thursday evenings) open to all children of Primary School age from the local area (after written permission obtained from parents/guardians is received). 3) School outreach workers going into local schools and assisting with assemblies and after school bible clubs on a weekly basis. 4) Creche facility which operates during the weekly Worship services to allow parents some respite from the routine care of young children. 5) Youth Fellowship meetings - Junior Youth, weekly meeting for 10-14 year old and Senior Youth from age 14 held meeting every fortnight for fellowship, prayer and bible teaching. 6) Outreach and evangelism conducted weekly-outreach bus providing tea/coffee provides opportunities to speak to all members of the public, share the Christian faith and invite to evangelistic meetings. 7) Weekly coffee outreach - Each Thursday 9:30am - 12:30pm church is open with free refreshments provided. Open for anyone to visit. 8) Relief of sickness and financial hardship by the provision of funds, goods or services of any kind, including through the provision of counseling and support - again within the church and to anyone coming in contact with the church in any of the above ways. 9) Financial support/one off gifts to other Christian organisations in other parts of Ireland, UK and anywhere in the world. 10) Services are recorded and available on CD and the Internet -evidence of being listened to in other nations. | £330,152
<strong>THE OTHERWISE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1071831](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071831)]<br>The Otherwise Club is a community centre for families choosing to educate their children out of school. It provides support, activities, sporting and drama events and outings  as well as project groups that specialise in topics. | £14,843
<strong>Crossroads Airdrie SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC051497](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051497)]<br>The organisation's purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of education of people in the Airdrie and surrounding area by providing drop in sessions to educate on a range of matters as the trustees see fit including but not limited to the advancement of religious education. promoting religious and racial harmony. and promoting equality and diversity in the community.  4.2 The advancement of the Christian religion through evangelical and related activities, including without prejudice to that generality the use of promotional material and literature, exhibitions and organised meetings and gatherings.  4.3 The provision of recreational facilities for activities such as youth clubs, lunchtime clubs, an OAP's community café and after school clubs for the people of Airdrie and surrounding area who want a safe social environment. | 
<strong>Broadford And Strath Community Company</strong> [Charity number: [SC034829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034829)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit principally the Community of Broadford and Strath which comprises the IV49 9AA, IV49 9AB, IV49 9AD, IV49 9AE, IV49 9AF, IV49 9AG, IV49 9AH, IV49 9AJ, IV49 9AL, IV49 9AN, IV49 9AP, IV49 9AQ, IV49 9AR, IV49 9AS, IV49 9AT, IV49 9AU, IV49 9AW, IV49 9AX, IV49 9AZ, IV49 9BA, IV49 9BB, IV49 9BD, IV49 9BF, IV49 9BG, IV49 9BH, IV49 9BJ, IV49 9BL, IV49 9BN, IV49 9BQ, IV49 9BS, IV49 9BT, IV49 9BU, IV49 9B\'J, IV49 9BX, IV49 9BY, IV49 9BZ, IV49 9DA, IV49 9DB, IV49 9DD, IV49 9DE, IV49 9DF, IV49 9DQ ' the Community' with the following objects:  1. To advance education and to relieve poverty among the residents of the Area of Benefit and to promote community development through the maintenance or improvement of the physical, social and economic infrastructure for the benefit of the general public in the Area of Benefit by 	 i. the provision of facilities for residents of to the Area of Benefit including facilities for meetings, lectures, classes and entertainments and for other forms of education, recreation and leisure time occupation. 	 ii. the provision of facilities for the young and elderly, including without prejudice to that generality, facilities for mothers and toddler groups, playgroups, out of school care groups, youth groups, young adults, senior citizens and the elderly. 	 iii. the provision of facilities for those of any age who have special needs including without prejudice to the foregoing generality, facilities for  the mentally and physically handicapped, athletes and sportspersons. 	 iv. the provision of training, education, meetings, lectures, seminars and talks and the promotion and publication of leaflets, pamphlets, books and articles whether concerned with the Area of Benefit or elsewhere. 	 v. the bringing together in furtherance of the objects of the Company of any organisations whether incorporated or unincorporated, statutory or non-statutory bodies and individuals 	 vi. the promotion for the benefit of the public of the environment and its  enhancement and   vii. the research, collation, recording, publication by any means, dissemination and promotion of the history of the Area of Benefit.  | £662,710
