# Playgroup `CC104`

Playgroup is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Childcare](/data/ukcat/CC) category.

1,975 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.98% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(play[- ]?(group|school)s?|mums (and|&) tots)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 259 | 0.34%
£10k - £100k | 1,039 | 1.52%
£100k - £250k | 545 | 2.63%
£250k - £500k | 68 | 0.69%
£500k - £1m | 19 | 0.31%
£1m - £10m | 3 | 0.04%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 1,934 | 1.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,530 | 0.90%
ccni | 240 | 3.33%
oscr | 205 | 0.82%
Total | 1,975 | 0.98%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Early Years - the organisation for young children</strong> [Charity number: [NI105832](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105832)]<br>In particular the 'Objects' section of the organisation's Articles further outlines the following activities linked with the specified purpose as including: to provide information, advice, support services and training to the beneficiaries; to support and develop projects, either alone or in partnership with statutory or voluntary organisations, which encourage the beneficiaries to understand and provide for the needs of children; to encourage, develop and support the formation of playgroups, parent and toddler groups, full daycare groups, crèches and other such groups; to encourage the study of the needs of children and to stimulate and educate the public interest in this and other related educational and social fields; to act as a representative for the beneficiaries in relation to government policies and legislation; to administer programmes of funding to support any or all of the charitable purposes of the Company; and to advance any other exclusively charitable purpose as the directors may, from time to time, decide in accordance with the law of charity. | £10,966,399
<strong>CHILDCARE AND BUSINESS CONSULTANCY SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1083895](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083895)]<br>CBCS acts as an umbrella organisation for voluntary run childcare.      CBCS operates some childcare services direct - these include out of school care, playgroup provision and creche facilities - as well as a toy library service and payroll facilities for member childcare groups. | £1,978,171
<strong>Cala Integrated Services</strong> [Charity number: [SC034553](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034553)]<br>To promote, maintain, improve and advance education and social developments of children, the parents, carers and families of such children and other appropriate persons with emphasis on play experience. To encourage study of the needs and problems of families and children (iii) To stimulate and educate the public interest in this and other relatea educational and social fields (iv) To encourage the formation, maintenance and development of playgroups, parent and toddler groups, under 5 groups, full day care and education schemes and to encourage appropriate parental involvement within these aforementioned groups including the services of home-visiting support and self help groups. | £1,425,048
<strong>The Eric Liddell Community</strong> [Charity number: [SC003147](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003147)]<br>2.1.1 To provide or assist in providing within an inclusive  framework, a range of community, educational or welfare services, amenities or facilities for the benefit of.   children, young people, elderly people, carers, the sick and disabled and other groupings within Edinburgh, throughout Scotland and when appropriate, internationally, which  will include.    meetings (including accommodation for community meetings, activities and other charitable services), day centres, playgroups, youth developments , individual or community care, counsel, advice, sport, entertainment, instruction or guidance and the provision of educational, social,  health and wellbeing based opportunities, courses and such  other services,  amenities or facilities as may be required,  whether provided by the Company or in co-operation with any other agencies.   2.1.2 The advancement of civic responsibility and community development, with particular emphasis upon volunteering, carrying out research and acting on the results of that research.   2.1.3 The advancement of the arts, culture and heritage for the benefit and enjoyment of the public through the preservation, restoration, maintenance and conservation of the buildings, land and moveables of historical, religious and cultural significance belonging to or on long lease to the Eric Liddell Community, including the stained glass windows and all Eric Liddell artefacts, memorabilia, photographs and letters. and   2.1.4 To raise the profile, understanding, recognition and celebration of Eric Liddell as one of our iconic figures and to promote, protect and develop his legacy in Scotland, UK and internationally. | £1,058,823
<strong>PETERBOROUGH ASYLUM AND REFUGEE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION (PARCA)</strong> [Charity number: [1152592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152592)]<br>PROVISION OF GENERAL ACTIVITIES.INFORMATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES TO THE REFUGEES, ASYLUM SEEKERS,MIGRANTS  .SIGN POSTING AND REFERRAL WITH IMMIGRATION ISSUES, REPRESENTATION LOCAL AUTHORITYTRANSLATION AND INTERPRETING SERVICES DRUG, HIV SEMINARS,HEALTH PREVENTION AND EDUCATION AWARENESS IT & BASIC INFORMATION, ESOLSPORT LEISURE'S & RECREATIONAL,YOUTH CLUB, PLAY GROUP & TRIPS. | £944,985
<strong>Colin Neighbourhood Sure Start</strong> [Charity number: [NI103284](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103284)]<br>Services on Offer: Health & Social Development scheme including: •Home visiting by Family Support Workers •Parenting programmes •Parent support groups •Baby massage •Infant yoga •Information workshops •Health promotion initiatives •Nurture programme •Cook it! •Family events •Story & Rhyme Time •Walking groups Speech, Language and Communication: •Early identification and assessment •Support for early years settings •Training workshops/courses for parents •Home visits •Links to specialist services Dads Work project including: •Dads & Kids Clubs •Cooking Class •Arts & crafts •Family events Driving Theory Media Class Community Midwife providing: •Ante/prenatal support •Breastfeeding support group •Bumps & Baby Class •Home visits Early Years services including: •Play Away crèche •A Way 2 Play: programmes for 2-3 Year Olds •Outreach crèche service •Daycare for training & education •Stay & Play sessions •Various playgroups •Transition programmes Additional Needs Support scheme providing: •Play & Development group •Social & Communication group •Sensory play •Parents support group •Disability awareness and promotion of inclusive practice | £893,990
<strong>GINGERBREAD COTTAGE PLAYGROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1087112](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087112)]<br>The principal activity of the charity is the provision of childcare services primarily under statutory school age. | £859,385
<strong>Cala Direct Management Services</strong> [Charity number: [SC034546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034546)]<br>To promote, maintain, improve and advance education and social developments of children, the parents, carers and families of such children and other appropriate persons with emphasis on play experience. To encourage study of the needs and problems of families and children To stimulate and educate the public interest in this and other related educational and social fields To encourage the formation, maintenance and development of playgroups, parent and toddler groups, under 5 groups, full day care and education schemes and (v) to encourage appropriate parental involvement within these aforementioned groups including the services of home-visiting support and self help groups. | £851,549
<strong>Limavady Community Development Initiative LTD</strong> [Charity number: [NI107433](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107433)]<br>The activities undertaken to achieve our purpose are delivered by the following projects: Our Recycle Project is an environmental project aimed to divert furniture from landfill, to promote reuse and recycling and prevent fly tipping by matching quality preloved furniture with the needs of our beneficiaries. Our Garden Centre Project is run as a partnership between LCDI and the Western Health & Social Care Trust, provides a day opportunity for adults with learning disabilities. Our wrap around school provision is a cross community after schools project providing wrap around out of school quality childcare for 24 children. Our Playgroup provides quality early years pre-school educational provision five mornings a week from 9-11.30am for 24 local children. Our family Centre provides a programme of work designed to support families develop their relationships and explore new opportunities to increase their health and wellbeing. Our flexicare project is a client led befriending service which supports older persons (65plus) remain in their own home for longer by addressing the issues of social isolation and loneliness. Our respite programme provides regular respite for local carers. Our Good Morning project delivers a daily telephone call to older people to ensure their continued connectivity to the local community. Our luncheon club meets three times per week to provide a nutritionally balanced meal with an additional social activity for local older residents. Our Advice Centres deliver independent generalist and debt specific support and guidance. Our Volunteer Centre provides developmental support to existing and new volunteers and their host organisation. Our E.Q.U.A.L project is an employment and training programme which provides developmental support for adults living with disability. | £813,037
<strong>LISTER STEPS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1083268](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083268)]<br>Childcare services: day nursery, after school, breakfast club, playgroup, playschemes enabling parents to access employment, education or training. Lister Steps provides training for staff and opportunities for placements and voluntary work for students and members of the community. | £776,221


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HAMPDEN PARK COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1193141](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193141)]<br>To further the benefits of the residents of  Hampden Park and surrounding areas by providing a venue for community usage:.  Playgroups, dance, keep fit, children' parties, club groups, education, the elderly and most related community activities . these facilities are provided at low cost. | £22,006
<strong>PARK AVENUE FREE METHODIST CHURCH BELFAST</strong> [Charity number: [NI106074](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106074)]<br>Our purpose is to promote the Christian faith through the guidelines of The Free Methodist Church; therefore, we promote Biblical principles through Bible study and our church services, We also teach life and social skills throughout our children, youth and adult organisations. These are informal times when the children and young people learn to behave in a social setting and treat others with respect. Children from birth to age 3 have a playgroup (Park Avenue Toddlers) where parents/guardians supported by the church workers spend time in early learning skills and play with children. In the J.A.M Clubs (aged 3-5, 6-8, 9-11) we seek to meet the physical, emotional and spiritual needs of children through play, dance, crafts and group talks and Bible teaching. For those of secondary school ages there is a youth club and a youth fellowship that meet on our church hall. This very informal time when the youth play games, use the computer and take time to be with on another. We seek to instil and develop confidence in social and domestic skills and an awareness of their environment. In addition, we provide facilities for the unemployed or retired as we feel that these people are of worth and value. This group meets weekly for 'free' meals, games and crafts. The leaders of this group invite organisations such as the Police, Age Concern and others to give advice. This club stimulates and inspires those who attend and gives routine to their day. We also encourage the public to take part in many of the 'one day' special events. We also use our church hall for birthday or anniversary parties. All events are carried out with the safety of all who attend in mind. We also provide social outlets for those of adult age by going out together for meals, movies, ice-skating, ten-pin bowling etc. These are conductive for establishing and improving relationships among those who attend them. | £130,867
<strong>LITTLE ANGELS PLAYGROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1196624](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196624)]<br>The charity works for the public benefit having as its objects, the development and education of children aged 2 years and 4 months up to 4 years in Newport City and the surrounding areas by the provision of quality, accessible, sessional childcare. | £169,931
<strong>THE RED BARN COMMUNITY PLAYGROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1030875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1030875)]<br>We are a community, committee run preschool. We are based in the local primary school and enjoy a close relationship with the school.Our local area is very mixed with regards to housing and age of residents. | £118,393
<strong>CHAPELTOWN COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [508291](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508291)]<br>Premises are available to rent for regular group activities,pilates,folk dance,playgroup,childrens parties and social community events only where there is no alcohol. We encourage groups who run keep-fit activities, dance and children's activities | £10,887
<strong>Richmount Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI106070](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106070)]<br>We provide a playgroup facility in the village of Scotch Street, Portadown. We are registered with SHSCT for 24 children. We have two age groups: Those from 2 years and 10 months in the year before immediate pre school. These children are fee paying. The can attend a minimum of 2 days per week. The other children are in their immediate pre school year and may be supported by the Education Authority via it PEAG funding. There can still be fee paying children in this group if the number of children exceeds the allocation by EANI. Overall the primary beneficiaries of Richmount Playgroup are aged between 2 years and 10 months and 4 years and 10 months. The secondary beneficiaries are the parents. Children in this playgroup develop their own personal, social and emotional skills before advancing onto primary school. The children learn through play and develop cognitive skills, motor skills . The playgroups attracts children from many different nationalities and religions. Mutual respect is engendered from an early age in the playgroup | £41,629
<strong>ALL SAINTS PLAYGROUP (HALIFAX)</strong> [Charity number: [1066854](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1066854)]<br>Runs as a pre-school providing pre-school education for 2 to 5 year olds in the local area. | £74,935
<strong>BROAD HAVEN PLAYGROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1174311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174311)]<br>We are a playgroup delivering care and education to children aged 2 - 4 years old operating from Broad Haven village Hall. | £40,939
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ALL SAINTS, GOSFORTH</strong> [Charity number: [1131094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131094)]<br>Serving local community providing church services and wide ranging activities open to the community including regular playgroup in the church hall as well as hosting occasional concerts in the church and a multitude in between. | £358,858
<strong>WEST WYCOMBE PRE-SCHOOL PLAYGROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1033562](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1033562)]<br>Ofsted registered childcare provider for children aged between 2 and 5 years. | £161,242
