# Nursery `CC101`

Nursery is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Childcare](CC.md) category.

6,298 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(nursery|nurseries|pre ?-?schools?|toddler groups?|cr[èe]ches?|infant schools?|kindergarten)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,027 | 1.38%
£10k - £100k | 2,518 | 3.66%
£100k - £250k | 1,776 | 8.45%
£250k - £500k | 396 | 3.92%
£500k - £1m | 175 | 2.78%
£1m - £10m | 133 | 1.55%
Over £10m | 18 | 0.87%
Total | 6,043 | 3.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 5,480 | 3.21%
oscr | 441 | 1.78%
ccni | 377 | 5.24%
Total | 6,298 | 3.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £280,413,000
<strong>BERKHAMSTED SCHOOLS GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [310630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310630)]<br>The education (including social and physical training) of boys and girls aged 3 -18, with a subsidiary nursery school for children from 5 months old. | £41,786,000
<strong>PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1096526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096526)]<br>A membership organisation for early years providers, our charitable purpose is to give children the best start in life by providing services that promote child development and support families especially those in deprived areas. This is achieved through early intervention and family services programmes, advising and representing our members and developing our own settings in deprived communities. | £26,012,000
<strong>ONE YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [1102301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102301)]<br>THE PROVISION OF SOCIAL HOUSING FOR SINGLE PEOPLE, THE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF YOUNG PEOPLE AND RESIDENTS.IN ADDITION WE OPERATE A WIDE RANGE OF CHILDRENS' CENTRES AND A FULL DAY NURSERY.OTHER SERVICES PROVIDED FOR THE COMMUNITY INCLUDE HEALTH, SPORTS AND RECREATION PROGRAMMES AND FACILITIES AND MEETING SPACES FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS. | £23,225,398
<strong>THE ALDENHAM FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [298140](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-298140)]<br>Trustee of the Aldenham School Charity and St Hilda's Educatioal Trust Ltd, charities engaged in secondary, primary and nursery education. | £22,408,996
<strong>Learning Disability Network London Limited</strong> [Charity number: [801081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801081)]<br>Providing quality services and creating new opportunities for people with learning disabilities and their families.  Our services include registered care, supported housing, community support, leisure activities, short breaks, a drop in, playschemes, a children and family centre, a pre-school nursery, play and youth services and a family support service. | £19,111,697
<strong>The Edinburgh Academy</strong> [Charity number: [SC016999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016999)]<br>The objects of The Edinburgh Academy, in substitution for those set out in the Original Charter, shall be (1) the provision of education in Scotland and in particular at The Edinburgh Academy including all aspects of nursery, primary and secondary education and the provision of all facilities to achieve that. and (2) the furtherance of that and the following objects a contribution to the educational life of Scotland in its widest sense and the provision of benefits related to the purposes of The Edinburgh Academy for those who may not be enrolled pupils at the Edinburgh Academy | £18,825,945
<strong>THE INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [270156](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270156)]<br>This charity promotes the advancement of education of children and young persons and to establish schools in any part of the world. The charity now provides education to over 860 pupils from the ages of 2 to 18 through the St James Schools: Nursery School, Prep School and Senior Girls' School situated at Earsby Street, W14 8SH, and Senior Boys' School   at Ashford, Surrey TW15 3DZ. | £17,900,712
<strong>THE MERCHANT TAYLORS' SCHOOLS CROSBY</strong> [Charity number: [1125485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125485)]<br>The Merchant Taylors' Schools Crosby provide education to boys and girls from the ages 4-18, in two Senior Schools, two Junior Schools and a Mixed Infant School. With the exception of pupils aged 4-7 and a small amount of teaching in the sixth form, the Schools provide a single sex education. There is however a wide range of extra-curricular activities in which both boys and girls can participate. | £16,723,756
<strong>WYCLIFFE COLLEGE (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [311714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311714)]<br>The Charity principally provides education in Stonehouse to boys and girls from the ages of 2 - 18 in its two schools, the Preparatory School, including a Nursery department, and the Senior School; it also runs holiday courses for British and overseas students. | £15,959,885


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Headingley Pre School</strong> [Charity number: [1029327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029327)]<br>Early Years Education, Training and Research in Leeds and the surrounding areas | £180,442
<strong>St Judes CofE Infant School PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1143976](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143976)]<br>Fundraising for the development and advancement of Englefield Green Infant School & Nursery pupils. | £14,091
<strong>Springboard Chippenham</strong> [Charity number: [1010231](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010231)]<br>Springboard provides playgroup sessions for pre-school children from birth to 5 years old with special needs, and a support and information service for parents and carers. | £324,461
<strong>HORDEN YOUTH AND COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1124135](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124135)]<br>Activities, courses, clubs and classes for ages 2 to 93! Affordable pre-school Nursery. Youth Club YogaFitnessStreet DanceComputing including computer 1-to-1 for vision-impaired people.Leisure courses (eg cookery, dressmaking)Level 2 training (eg First Aid, Food Hygiene)Job ClubLuncheon Club (Over 65)Bingo | £129,375
<strong>Tober Tinys Community Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI102605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102605)]<br>Tobertinys runs a pre-school facility in the village of Tobermore which is attended by children from Tobermore and surrounding districts. Children are provided with education and recreation facilities and practical assistance for the children where necessary. The Group provides and maintains suitable equipment and facilities for the education and recreation of the children subject to the specifications of social services and DEL. The committee of volunteers manage the team of workers recruit and select them and manage all human resource requirements. They also manage the building ensuring that adequate insurance, properly trained volunteers, parents or guardians of the children all have an input into the appropriate activities of the childcare group. The committee also carries out a range of fund raising activities, ensures the financial well-being and management of the organisation. They also ensure a co-ordinated integrated and holistic approach to young children’s learners | £96,463
<strong>BRIXWORTH CENTRE PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1197230](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197230)]<br>We are a Pre-school, caring for and educating children between the ages of 2 and 5 years old. We work very closely with our families to ensure that these vital first steps to education are of the highest quality. | £130,167
<strong>Rainbow Pre-school</strong> [Charity number: [NI101895](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101895)]<br>Rainbow Preschool advances the education of pre-school children in the dromore area by providing safe and satisfying group play, with the right of parents/carers to take responsibility for and to become involved in the activities of the group, and too promote the preservation of health of the beneficiaries; promoting the six areas of pre-school cirriculum and supporting the values and principles of Early Years. Rainbow Pre-school is run by the management committee. | £44,847
<strong>PORTCHESTER & DISTRICT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1154548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154548)]<br>Provides/enables community-run facilities, activities, services including (but not restricted to): sports, arts, crafts, older person's clubs, toy library, Pre-School, volunteering, services to children's centres/libraries; adult/community learning; Portchester Gala; community events, volunteering/work placements, second-hand bookshop, information centre, copying, Internet cafe | £176,332
<strong>Home-Start North Down</strong> [Charity number: [NI106098](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106098)]<br>Home-Start North Down offers • Support to families through trained volunteers visiting families in their own homes to offer parent to parent support tailored to meet identified need. We offer friendship, practical and emotional support to parents of at least one child under five. Through the support of trained volunteers we aim to give 0-5 year olds within supported families the best start in life based on equality of opportunity. Through volunteer support we aim to promote social inclusion by visiting families who may experience disadvantage due to ethnicity, disability and/or mental health illness. We aim to increase confidence, self-esteem and to work preventively to help families cope with practical and emotional difficulties thus improving emotional well-being for both parents and children and alleviate stress within families. We aim to build on the strengths of families by supporting parents as they overcome difficulties, grow in confidence and strengthen their relationships with their children, enabling them to give their children the best start in life. Our volunteers support families to use other resources within the community to create supportive networks, encouraging independence and social and community integration. • Family Groups which provide a space for parents to gather, meet and talk, and create their own local support network. At group children can participate in Rhyme Time, arts and crafts and avail of a healthy break. Families can avail of health information and advice such as dental hygiene, nutrition and child development. A range of seasonal events, fun activities and trips are open to families supported. Home-Start groups are mostly parent and toddler groups. But there are also more targeted groups to meet the needs of people in local communities. | £115,831
<strong>PETER PAN PLAYGROUP - KEYHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1170747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170747)]<br>Peter Pan Playgroup is a preschool setting that provides an educational environment for 2-4 year olds. It follows the EYFS. It supports both the child and their care giver. It is set within Keyham, Plymouth. | £31,296
