# Crime and Justice `CJ`

Crime and Justice is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](CJ.md) category.

1,832 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.90% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(crime|criminal)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 563 | 0.76%
£10k - £100k | 458 | 0.67%
£100k - £250k | 213 | 1.01%
£250k - £500k | 154 | 1.51%
£1m - £10m | 147 | 1.70%
£500k - £1m | 112 | 1.76%
Over £10m | 44 | 2.09%
Total | 1,691 | 0.88%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,496 | 0.88%
oscr | 207 | 0.84%
ccni | 129 | 1.79%
Total | 1,832 | 0.90%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £307,341,207
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £302,005,000
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £277,273,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £116,036,000
<strong>THE ROAD SAFETY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1156300](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156300)]<br>The provision of funding to support research or practical interventions in road safety to reduce death and injury through education, engineering or enforcement or a combination of any of these approaches. | £94,871,753
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000566)]<br>THE CHARITY'S MAIN ACTIVITIES ARE TO CONTINUE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION THROUGH EVANGELISTIC OUTREACH, PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SALVATION ARMY TERRITORIES, FACILITATING INTERNATIONAL PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, CRISIS RELIEF, WORKING IN COMMUNITIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES AS CLOSE TO THE FAMILY UNIT AND FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING. | £85,972,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [1001957](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001957)]<br>PROVIDES A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL MISUSERS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN COMMUNTY AND PRISON ENVIRONMENTS. FROM EDUCATION AND PREVENTION TO COMMUNITY SERVICES AND RESIDENTIAL REHABILIATION.WE ALSO SUPORT THE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH DIFFICULITIES | £80,609,000
<strong>Lifeline Project (subject to insolvency proceedings)</strong> [Charity number: [SC045486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045486)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established (“the Objects”) are to relieve poverty, sickness and distress among those persons affected or who suffer from:   3.1.1 the addiction to drugs of any kind.  3.1.2 poor mental, emotional or physical health.  3.1.3 obesity and  3.1.4 sexually transmitted diseases including (without limitation) HIV and AIDS   3.2 to educate the public on matters relating to the prevention, effective management and treatment of drug misuse, poor mental emotional or physical health, obesity and sexually transmitted diseases, and   3.3 to support and assists individuals with their rehabilitation from offending with a view to preventing or reducing the risk of further crime.   | £61,812,600


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WORLD RESCUE ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1100525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100525)]<br>The promotion of Road Traffic Collision and Trauma training and development within each of the WRO member organisations. To promote the benefits of effective Post Crash Response and care with international partners and around the world. | £20,676
<strong>SUFFOLK ADVANCED MOTORCYCLISTS</strong> [Charity number: [1067800](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1067800)]<br>Motorcycle safety training, promotion and preparation prior to taking the Institute of Advanced Motorists test | £14,444
<strong>KENT REFUGEE HELP</strong> [Charity number: [1120185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120185)]<br>Kent Refugee Help supports refugees and migrants held in London and Kent prisons. We help people access legal advice and representation to fight their case. After release we continue to help in other ways, supporting them and providing small cash sums for emergencies. We offer legal advice for immigration via telephone or face to face. We are regulated to give immigration legal advice by OISC. | £22,103
<strong>MIGRANT ACTION</strong> [Charity number: [1207941](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207941)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:1. TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF MIGRANTS IN ENGLAND AND WALES WHO ARE IN NEED BY REASON OF YOUTH, AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISABILITY OR FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING ITEMS, SERVICES OR FACILITIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO EMERGENCY AND CRISIS SUPPORT FOR PEOPLE FACING DESTITUTION, FOOD VOUCHERS, EMERGENCY HOUSING AND REFERRALS FOR ACCESS TO LEGAL SUPPORT, WELFARE, HEALTHCARE, EDUCATION, HOUSING AND EMPLOYMENT.2. TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF:A. MIGRANTS, INCLUDING BY PROVIDING INFORMATION, TRAINING, ADVICE AND GUIDANCE ON TOPICS INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION) EMPLOYABILITY SKILLS, ENGLISH LANGUAGE COURSES, IMMIGRATION ADVICE AND THE PROVISION OF VOLUNTEERING AND WORK PLACEMENT OPPORTUNITIES;B. THE PUBLIC, ON ISSUES RELATING TO THE MIGRANT EXPERIENCE AND THE DISADVANTAGES AND DISCRIMINATION THEY CAN FACE, INCLUDING THROUGH ADVOCACY, CAMPAIGNING, RESEARCH, AND THE PUBLICATION OF RESOURCES FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT.3. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY WORKING WITH MIGRANTS IN ENGLAND AND WALES (WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AS A RESULT OF THEIR UNEMPLOYMENT, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, YOUTH, OLD AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER REASSIGNMENT, POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT, RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN, POOR HOUSING OR CRIME) BY PROVIDING SUPPORT, ADVICE AND SIGNPOSTING OF SERVICES FOR MIGRANTS AND PROVIDING INTEGRATION GUIDANCE ON LIVING IN THE UK.4. THE PROMOTION OF EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY:A. THE PROVISION OF ACTIVITIES TO FOSTER UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN PEOPLE FROM DIVERSE BACKGROUNDS; AND B. TO CULTIVATE A SENTIMENT AND INFRASTRUCTURE IN FAVOUR OF EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY. | 
<strong>KULAN SOMALI ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1108997](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108997)]<br>Based in Westminster. Aim to improve the lives of the Somali community in London.Activities include:information and advice service, employment support project NEET categorized individuals, supporting Somali prisoners well being and employment prospects. | £123,136
<strong>UCHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1158844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158844)]<br>We operate a day centre for the those in need which also includes food parcels. We help to rehabilitate ex-offenders. We provide training and education to support young people. We arrange awareness events in the community's we serve. | 
<strong>Gorebridge Community Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC036141](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036141)]<br>3. The company has been formed to benefit the community of Gorebridge which comprises all the postcode units within sector EH23 4 ('the Community') with the following objects: a) To promote the community and general public and its environs without distinction of sex, sexuality, political, religious or other opinions by associating the local statutory authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitants in a common effort to advance education and to provide facilities, or assist in the provision of facilities, in the interest of social welfare for recreation and other leisure-time occupation so that their conditions of life may be improved. (b) To advance education and in particular to promote opportunities for learning for the benefit of the community and the general public.  (c) To preserve, restore and improve the environment in the community through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and regeneration projects (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit s so arising clearly outweigh any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners. (d)	To relieve those in need by the promotion of trade and industry within the Community for the benefit of the Community and the general public. (e)	To promote training, particularly among residents oft e Community, and with particular reference to skills which will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment. (f)	To help young people, particularly those resident in within the Community, to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities, such that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society.  (g)	To preserve, for the benefit of the Community, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist within the Community in buildings (including any structure or erection and any part of a building as so defined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest.  (h)	To promote the  rehabilitation of offenders and_ex offenders by  the  provision of  education and training,  the provision  of assistance in finding work for such persons and the promotion or support of any project or scheme directed towards the prevention of crime or delinquency within the Community  (i)To promote, establish, operate and/or support other searches and projects of a charitable nature for the benefit of the Community.    | £298,988
<strong>BARKING AND DAGENHAM RACIAL EQUALITY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1073172](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073172)]<br>To combat racial and other forms of discrimination, promote equal opportunity and good relations between people of different racial/religious groups, backgrounds and lifestyles within Barking & Dagenham and surrounding areas.  Provide general advice, information and assistance on debt, housing, education, employment, form filling, plus specialist advice to victims of hate crime and discrimination. | £1,528
<strong>Esc Films</strong> [Charity number: [NI102123](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102123)]<br>ESC is an award-winning culture and arts education charity working with storytelling, drama and film in Northern Ireland. Our Vision: To create radical transformation among those most disadvantaged by society. Our Mission: To use drama and film to change lives, challenge perceptions, tackle social exclusion, stigma and discrimination. HOW IT WORKS: ESC reacts to the changing environment around it in NI. It is project-driven and responsive to need. Over the past 15 years ESC has grown from a community arts organisation working primarily in drama with young disadvantaged people, often on cross-community interfaces within Belfast into film-making with a wide range of marginalized and disadvantaged individuals. We produced a world first award-winning film, Mickey B, a modern adaptation of Shakespeare’s Macbeth made within NI’s maximum security prison, with prisoners as cast. This has now been translated into seven languages. We have maintained a strong focus on criminal justice and on mental health within our short film projects all of which are based around therapeutic and educational elements. ESC provides educational qualifications (ASDAN Expressive Arts and Community Volunteering awards) and both creative and therapeutic engagement to extremely disadvantaged and/or socially excluded people, in particular those who fall through the gaps in service provision within criminal justice and mental health. ESC values first-hand experience. It is non-judgmental and practices honesty, respect, trust and openness. ESC provides opportunities for disadvantaged or socially-excluded people to experience creative interventions through drama and film. The overall aim of the organisation is to encourage marginalised people to understand and transform their lives by turning their unique experiences into films and documentaries. We do this across a wide range of short film-making projects. | £90,756
<strong>The Lucy Faithfull Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC039888](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039888)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF LFF ARE 1. TO FURTHER THE ASSESSMENT, PSYCHOLOGICAL REHABILITATION, TREATMENT, EDUCATION AND CARE OF PERSONS WHO HAVE COMMITTED OR ARE LIKELY TO COMMIT SEXUAL OFFENCES AGAINST OTHERS, ESPECIALLY CHILDREN   2. TO FURTHER THE ASSESSMENT, CARE AND TREATMENT OF THE VICTIMS (AND THEIR FAMILIES) OF THE AFORESAID OFFENDERS AND TO FURTHER THE HEALTH AND WELFARE OF CHILDREN CONSIDERED TO BE AT RISK OF SEXUAL ABUSE   3. TO ASSIST IN THE PREVENTION OF SEXUAL OFFENCES (ESPECIALLY THOSE INVOLVING CHILDREN)   4. TO FURTHER STUDY AND RESEARCH INTO THE NATURE, EXTENT AND PROBABLE CAUSES OF SEXUAL OFFENDING, THE EFFECTS ON VICTIMS AND THEIR FAMILIES, THE EFFECTIVE PREVENTION OF SUCH OFFENDING AND THE ASSESSMENT, TREATMENT AND REHABILITATION OF OFFENDERS OR LIKELY OFFENDERS AND DISSEMINATE THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH RESEARCH, AND,   5. TO PROVIDE EDUCATION AND TRAINING TO PROFESSIONALS, SCHOOL GOVERNORS, PARENTS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC IN ISSUES RELATING TO SEXUAL OFFENCES (ESPECIALLY THOSE INVOLVING CHILDREN), THE PREVENTION OF SUCH OFFENCES, THE REHABILITATION AND TREATMENT OF OFFENDERS OR POTENTIAL OFFENDERS, AND THE CARE AND TREATMENT OF VICTIMS | £4,827,719
