# Prevention and safety `CJ102`

Prevention and safety is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](/data/ukcat/CJ) category.

179 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.09% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(crime (prevention|reduction)|public safety|(prevention|reduction) of crime)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 67 | 0.08%
£10k - £100k | 45 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 10 | 0.05%
£250k - £500k | 20 | 0.22%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.18%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.13%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.11%
Total | 164 | 0.09%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 121 | 0.07%
oscr | 41 | 0.16%
ccni | 17 | 0.24%
Total | 179 | 0.09%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £25,990,763
<strong>Community Security Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043612)]<br>1.1 The objects of the Charity shall be: 1.1.1 to promote good race relations between the Jewish community and other members of society by working towards the elimination of racism in the form of anti-Semitism. 1.1.2 to promote the efficiency of the police within the community at large and the promotion of good citizenship and greater public participation in the prevention of crime with particular reference to the maintenance of public order and racially motivated especially anti-Semitic crime. 1.1.3 to relieve the victims of racial or religious harassment and especially anti-Semitic harassment who are in need or who have suffered hardship or distress. 1.1.4 to promote research into racism and anti-Semitism and to publish the useful results of such research and otherwise to promote public education about racism and anti-Semitism. 1.1.5 Subject to clause 1.3 to promote and support such other purposes as are charitable in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, as the Trustees may from time to time think fit.   | £11,313,954
<strong>THE CORPORATION OF TRINITY HOUSE OF DEPTFORD STROND</strong> [Charity number: [211869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211869)]<br>To serve seafarers and their dependants through the provision of welfare services; to provide opportunities for training and to promote public safety and the safety of shipping generally; to act as a Deep Sea Pilotage Authority and provide Nautical Assessors; to maintain the fabric and heritage of Trinity House. | £9,903,669
<strong>Jobs and Business Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC023930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023930)]<br>To relieve and/or prevent poverty particularly among residents of the area served by Glasgow City Council ('the Operating Area'). To relieve unemployment particularly among residents of the Operating Area for the public benefit in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. To advance education particularly among residents of the Operating Area, including the provision of training in skills of all kinds (particularly such skills as will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment).To advance health particularly among residents of the Operating Area. To relieve those in need particularly within the Operating Area by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, alcohol or drugs dependency, or other disadvantage. To advance community development and regeneration particularly within the Operating Area through: assisting in the planning of changes to the housing and physical environment as part of a' wider strategy for relief of the problems of poverty. the promotion of trade and industry, for the benefit of the general public. the promotion of security, public safety, the prevention of crime and the reduction of the fear of crime, particularly among residents of the Operating Area . To advance citizenship particularly among residents of the Operating Area .To preserve, restore and improve the environment particularly within the Operating Area through the provision, maintenance or improvement of public parks , public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED CONTACT CHARITY FOR FURTHER DETAILS | £9,441,211
<strong>ANGLIA CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [299049](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299049)]<br>Resettlement and support of offenders or those at risk of offending,  provision of support, advocacy and assistance to those people and their families to contribute to the communities in which they live, provision of accommodation and accommodation based services and support to offenders and ex-offenders & the promotion of public safety and the prevention or reduction of crime. | £4,825,235
<strong>Transforming Communities:Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC045741](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045741)]<br>5.1 The promotion for the public benefit of urban regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation (and in particular within the Operating Areas) by all or any of the following means: 5.1.1 the creation of training and employment opportunities by the provision of workspace, buildings and/or land for use on favourable terms. 5.1.2 the provision or assistance in the provision of housing for those who are in conditions of need and in the improvement of housing in the public sector or in the ownership of a charity or charities. 5.1.3 the provision or assistance in the provision of recreational facilities for the public at large and/or those who, by reason of their youth, age, infinity or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities. 5.1.4 the promotion of public safety and prevention of crime. 5.1.5 the provision of public artworks. and 5.1.6 such other means as may from time to time be determined, subject to the directors having satisfied themselves that such other means can reasonably be regarded as being in direct furtherance of a charitable purpose. 5.2 The preservation, restoration and improvement of the environment within the Operating Areas through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and on the basis that in doing so, the company shall seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use. MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED. CONTACT CHARITY FOR FURTHER DETAILS.  | £4,724,739
<strong>THE GROUNDWORK SOUTH TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [293705](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293705)]<br>In relation to its "Beneficial Area":1. To promote conservation, protection and improvement of the physical/natural environment.2. To implement recreation/leisure solutions which enhance social welfare in the community.3. To advance public education in environmental/sustainability issues.4. Via a social enterprise, contribute to wider national strategies on crime reduction. | £4,707,895
<strong>Towards Zero Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [1141798](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141798)]<br>TZF aims to promote public safety and public health, the protection and preservation of human life and the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment. We support and conduct independent research and testing programmes that assess the safety and environmental characteristics of motor vehicles and their comparative performance for the general public. | £2,532,678
<strong>Minhaj-ul-Quran International</strong> [Charity number: [SC045860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045860)]<br>5.1 The Objects of the Charity ('the Objects') are, throughout the world and more particularly in the United Kingdom ('the UK') and in Europe, specifically restricted to promoting and assisting in: 5.1.1 the advancement of the faith and religious practices of Islam. 5.1.2 the advancement of religious and general education for the public benefit including but not restricted to the study and promotion of: (i) primary. secondary. college and university education. (ii) interfaith dialogue in order to secure understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and non-Muslims. (iii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. (iv) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism.  5.1.3 the relief of poverty. sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of: (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics and floods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents and wars. (iii) the abuse and violation of human rights. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) crime including any form of terrorism. 5.1.4 the advancement of other charitable purposes for the public benefit, to provide recreational facilities and activities in the interests of social welfare with the object of improving the conditions of life for those persons in need of such facilities. and 5.1.5 the advancement of such other charitable objects for the public benefit as the Board of Trustees may from time to time think fit.  | £2,388,555
<strong>Safer Communities Limited</strong> [Charity number: [1112657](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112657)]<br>Encouraging the development of crime reduction and promotion of community safety in the Tees Valley and England and Wales | £2,348,285


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Doury Road Development Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101700](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101700)]<br>Doury Road Development Group are a community based charity founded to provide social, educational, community development, economic and environmental activities within the Doury Road Estate in Ballymena. The group lobby statutory bodies such as the local Council, Public Health Agency, Housing Executive and Roads Service regarding improvements to the local area. The group is managed by a committee who are elected at a public Annual General Meeting on a yearly basis. We provide activities such as: - OCN level 1 Computer Essentials Training - Senior Citizens Luncheon Club - Craft and Cookery Classes - Men and Womens Health Initiatives - Intergenerational activities - Community Safety / Crime Prevention seminars and projects - History Classes - OCN English Courses - Drug Awareness Courses - Credit Programme and Money Sense courses - Employability Drive for Life Programme - Community Fun Days - Environmental Improvements such as green area maintenance - Cultural Diversity / Good Relations projects - Cross Community activities The Association work in partnership with other statutory and voluntary organisations in order to ensure that citizens within the area of benefit receive advice, support and activities in order to improve their quality of life. We are registered with and supported by Supporting Communities N.I. | £37,942
<strong>M.A.L.S. MERSEYSIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1149723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149723)]<br>M.A.L.S. Merseyside provide a through the gate mentoring service to offenders on release from custody. We deliver a Life change programme to offenders so as to break down any barriers that are preventing them from moving on and put their criminal life styles behind them. We also deliver crime prevention programmes to young people to deter them away form a life of crime. | £78,739
<strong>COMMUNITY SUPPORT IN THE COUNTRYSIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1171175](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171175)]<br>CSC was set up with the main objective of  relieving persons who are in conditions of need, hardship or distress as a result of a natural or other disaster or emergency, to promote public safety and to protect the lives and property of residents of Brockham. | £5,857
<strong>Isle Of Luing Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC036441](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036441)]<br>4.1 The company's main purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development. The company's purposes are:  4.2 to provide or advance the accessibility of recreational, facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community and in particular to advance education for the public benefit in the heritage and history of the Isle of Luing by the provision of a museum, heritage centre, interpretative panels and other means.  4.3 advancement of citizenship or Community development, including rural or urban regeneration and in particular to promote public safety.   4.4 To advance the provisions for educational opportunities in the Community relating to environment, culture, heritage and/or history and in particular to advance education, training or retraining, particularly among unemployed people, and provide unemployed people with work experience.  4.5 To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community. and in particular to preserve, restore and improve the environment in and around the Isle of Luing through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and on the basis that in doing so, the company shall seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration, erosion prevention and other operations to facilitate the use of these purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use.  | £143,746
<strong>OPPORT FOUNDATION-THE CHARLTON ADVICE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1086296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086296)]<br>TO PROVIDE ADVICE & ADVOCACY TO YOUNG PEOPLE DISADVANTAGED BY POVERTY OF AFRICAN & AFRICAN CARIBBEAN BACKGROUND IN EDUCATION, CRIME PREVENTION, DEBT, HOUSING, IMMIGRATION, EMPLOYMENT & OTHER ISSUES. | £24,892
<strong>Coolessan Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI100931](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100931)]<br>Coolessan Community Association are a community based charity founded to provide social, educational and environmental activities within the Coolessan ward of Limavady. The group lobby statutory bodies such as the local Council, Public Health Agency, Housing Executive and Roads Service regarding improvements to the local area. The group is managed by a committee of who are elected at a public Annual General Meeting on a yearly basis. We provide activities such as: - OCN level 1 Computer Essentials Training - Senior Citizens Luncheon Club - Pharmacy Projects - Youth Club - Men and Womens Health Initiatives - Intergenerational activities - Community Safety / Crime Prevention seminars and projects - Health Roadshows - Community Fun Days - Environmental Improvements such as green area maintenance, - Cultural Diversity / Good Relations projects - Cross Community activities The Association work in partnership with other organisations such as The Glens Community Association , Roe-valley Residents association BoValley Community Association , WELB youth Service, PSNI, PCSP, St. Vincent de Paul, LCDI Advice in order to ensure that older, vulnerable low income people within the area receive advice, support and activities in order to improve their quality of life. We are registered with and supported by Supporting Communities. | £1,620
<strong>AFAN TAWE NEDD CRIME PREVENTION PANEL</strong> [Charity number: [1098750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098750)]<br>To promote crime prevention measures for the betterment of the community especially the elderly and vunerable. | £6
<strong>Society of Equine Behaviour Consultants</strong> [Charity number: [SC047280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047280)]<br>The aims and objectives of the Society will be. a) To improve public safety and horse welfare by setting professional standards for Equine Behaviour Consultants, maintaining a Register of qualified and insured Equine Behaviour Consultants offering professional services in the UK and regulating the practice of SEBC Registered Consultants, requiring them to prioritise safety and welfare and offer the highest standards of professional practice and customer care. b) To provide educational information on equine behaviour and in particular on the safety and welfare aspects of behaviour modification and training techniques to horse owners, the equestrian industry, associated professions and any other interested party. c) To increase awareness of and public access to qualified and insured Equine Behaviour Consultants. | £1,283
<strong>Auchenback Active Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC032523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032523)]<br>(1) To assist in the relief of ill health and the promotion of good health among the residents of the Operating Area and in the provision of health education   for the residents of the Operating Area.      (2) To advance education among the residents of Auchenback ('the Operating Area'), being the area shown outlined in red on the map attached to this memorandum of association.  (3) To promote training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents of the Operating Area in obtaining paid employment.  (4) To relieve poverty among the residents of the Operating Area.  (5) To relieve unemployment in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment  (6) To provide, or assist in the provision, in the interests of social welfare, of facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation available to the public at large within. the Operating Area with a view to improving their conditions of life.  (7) To preserve, restore and improve the environment in and around the Operating Area through the provision, maintenance and! or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation,restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use.  (8) To promote security, public safety, the prevention of crime and the reduction of the fear of crime among residents of the Operating Area.  (9) To promote other schemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of the residents of the Operating Area. | £46,756
<strong>Howard League For Penal Reform In Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC017234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017234)]<br>The objects of the League are to promote humane and rational penal policies in Scotland and to foster constructive policies of crime prevention and rehabilitation. | £13,147
