# Victim support `CJ105`

Victim support is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](CJ.md) category.

89 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.04% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(affected by crime|victims? support|victims? of crime)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 17 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 17 | 0.02%
£100k - £250k | 9 | 0.04%
£250k - £500k | 5 | 0.05%
£500k - £1m | 3 | 0.04%
£1m - £10m | 11 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.09%
Total | 64 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 70 | 0.04%
ccni | 10 | 0.14%
oscr | 9 | 0.04%
Total | 89 | 0.04%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>VICTIM SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [298028](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-298028)]<br>Victim Support is the independent charity for victims and witnesses of crime in England and Wales. Our services are free of charge and confidential.  Whether you are a victim or a witness of a crime our help falls into three main kinds; emotional support; information; practical help.We also speak out as a national voice for victims and witnesses and campaign for change. | £50,383,000
<strong>Victim Support Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002138](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002138)]<br>4.1 to reduce the distress and disadvantageous effects on victims and witnesses of crime and other forms of harmful behaviour having similar effects to crime, including on the families and friends of such persons and others affected to the extent that they are in need of such emotional & practical support. and 4.2 to advance public education and awareness in relation to the impact of crime and other forms of harmful behaviour having similar effects to crime, on all those affected and to champion the rights of victims and witnesses and all others affected by crime  | £8,332,043
<strong>REMEDI - RESTORATIVE SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1091232](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091232)]<br>Remedi provides a full range of relevant and innovative Restorative Justice based services including:-A complete victim offender mediation service,Victim awareness sessions in conjunction with the National Probation Service and the Youth Offending Teams in South Yorkshire. Community reparation schemes with Youth Offending Teams. Advocacy and support services for victims of crime. | £6,041,122
<strong>NIACRO</strong> [Charity number: [NI101599](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101599)]<br>To achieve the purposes and benefits, NIACRO: • delivers services for and provides advice and support to people who have offended, people who have been in prison, people alleged to have offended, persons who may be at risk of offending, victims of crime and the families of all these people, as well as the communities affected; • provides education, training, employment support, accommodation support, welfare and financial advice(including money management training), guidance, advocacy and representation, recreation and transport for the above categories of person; • provides mediation in the community to prevent crime and facilitate better community relations, supporting both those who are likely to offend and those who are victims of anti-social behaviour; • supports people to maintain their tenancies by working with them and their community to foster integration and prevent problems escalating, including those whose tenancy may be at risk due to anti-social behaviour stemming from mental health problems; • promotes literacy, numeracy and community, family and educational engagement amongst young people both in the community and in care; • supports families to maintain contact when a family member goes into prison, including by facilitating transport to enable family members to visit the prison; • advocate for the rights of people in prison and the promotion of prison reform at both practical and policy levels; • increases public awareness of the problems faced by the above categories of person by the collation and dissemination of information or communication relating to such problems or persons; • promotes and assists the recruitment and training of volunteers; • undertakes research, enquiries and surveys; • receives referrals from and refers to a wide variety of statutory and voluntary services; • organises, sponsors or conducts(whether alone or with other organisations)educational and training courses and meetings, conferences and exhibitions. | £5,095,584
<strong>N.I. Alternatives Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI101039](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101039)]<br>NIA is a regional restorative justice and community safety organisation that aims to promote and develop non-violent, community responses to issues of low-level crime, anti-social behaviour and community conflict in Northern Ireland. It will achieve this by addressing four inter-related problems: the failure of the formal justice system, the breakdown of relationships between the community and the statutory sector, anti-social behaviour in local communities and punishment beatings and attacks. In practice this means that the agency delivers a wide range of interventions that include intensive youth support, victim support, family support, restorative conferencing, mediation services, detached street work, preventative group work, anti-hate crime initiatives, personal development programmes and other community safety programmes. | £2,483,448
<strong>GREEN LIGHT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000977](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000977)]<br>Wellbeing/educational programmes in woodland and green spaces, helping disadvantaged adults and children refocus and rebuild their lives; engaging them in skills learning and self development: NEET, victims of crime, ex-offenders, mental health, substance misuse, ex-forces, unemployed, disengaged from school, learning disabilities. Conservation of the environment. Train and deliver forest school. | £2,482,950
<strong>Victim Support Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI103651](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103651)]<br>We help and support victims and witnesses of crime in a number of ways. Our community service starts with practical and emotional support for the victim shortly after the crime has occurred. We can assist with compensation claims, and help with appeals. We help prepare people for the experience of going to court, and support witnesses while they are in court. We can also help victims complete Victim Personal Statements after a conviction. We advocate for vulnerable victims and victims of hate crime. We aim to represent the victim’s experience, and lobby government and the Criminal Justice System for effective change. In the last year we have received funding to pilot the role of Independent Sexual Violence Advocates (ISVA). These support workers provide one to one support for victims of sexual violence throughout the criminal justice process. The outcome of our work is that victims and witnesses of crime in Northern Ireland will feel better informed about their rights, and more aware of the choices available to them, have more confidence in the Criminal Justice System, and feel that their voice is being heard and their story believed. Support offered by Victim Support NI staff and volunteers will support people to feel less anxious and safer in court. An important aspect of the organisation’s work is with decision makers to ensure they hear victims’ voices, are better informed and take account of the needs of victims and witnesses when effecting policy change. We also partner successfully with other agencies to ensure that we have the best available advocacy, specialist advice, and support services for our clients. Our staff and volunteers are experts in their fields and we work hard to make sure accredited training is made available to those who wish to further their skills | £2,469,492
<strong>FIGHT FOR PEACE INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1137636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137636)]<br>At our Academy in Newham, we use boxing and martial arts combined with education and personal development to realise the potential of young people. Our Alumni Programme is an organisational capacity training consultancy and support services for local community based charities delivering programmes in communities affected by crime and violence in the UK and globally. | £2,155,433
<strong>SAFE! SUPPORT FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AFFECTED BY CRIME</strong> [Charity number: [1143532](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143532)]<br>SAFE! provides support for young people (between the ages of 8 and 25) who are suffering the negative impacts of crime.  Young victims are offered the opportunity to have a series of meetings with a fully trained professional to help them overcome the negative impacts of that experience of a crime.  We also offer training and support to other professionals working in youth justice. | £1,558,916


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>JAMES BULGER MEMORIAL TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1141125](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141125)]<br>The principal objects and activities of the charity are the provision of resources and facilities that benefit and support young people who are disadvantaged by reason of having become the victims of crime or bereavement and to reward those who are judged to have shown exemplary conduct making a positive contribution to sick or disabled relatives or to the welfare of others or society in general. | £47,188
<strong>Glen Development Initiative</strong> [Charity number: [NI101280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101280)]<br>To achieve our purposes to relieve poverty, sickness, help the aged, advance education and provide facilities to our community our project brings together the statutory authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitants to provide or secure the provision of social services, educational, environmental, recreational facilities and practical assistance for people within the area of benefit. We are the lead partner in: • the Physical Renewal Taskforce where we are delivering a series of improvements to the physical infrastructure of the area including, new social housing developments, environmental improvement schemes, play parks, and new community centres. • the Economic Task Force where we delivering training and educational facilities to long term unemployed people who are removed from the labour market and to small business to encourage and support them to improve employment opportunities. We are full partners within the Community and Social Renewal Task Forces in which we deliver: • Community safety services to local people affected by crime or the fear of crime. This includes provision of advice, security devices for elderly or vulnerable people, physical changes such as improved street lighting, gates in back lanes and more appropriate fencing. • To deliver health interventions including health checks, nutritional, advice, referrals to other agencies and a range of healthy life style opportunities such as active citizenship programmes with exercise including chair based exercise or older or less able people. • To deliver early intervention programmes including Parent and Toddlers Groups, paediatric first aid and parenting skills. • Summer intervention programmes to avoid young people becoming involved in interface trouble during periods of increased community tension such as the “marching season” etc. We also provide support and a venue for a range of local clubs and organisations to deliver their programmes and events within the community. | £366,381
<strong>MA MUNDELE AFRICA CAUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1200626](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200626)]<br>THE CHARITY’S OBJECTIVES (“THE OBJECTS”) ARE TO:IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:1. TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT LIMITED TO PROVIDING ESSENTIAL ITEMS INCLUDING FOOD, CLOTHING, SLEEPING BAGS, BLANKETS TO THE HOMELESS AND VOLUNTEERING OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN THE CHARITY SHOP TO PROVIDE THOSE IN FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WITH SKILLS TRAINING TO IMPROVE THEIR EMPLOYABILITY SKILLS;2. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING A VISITING FRIENDS SERVICE TO THOSE IN CARE HOMES AND PROVIDING RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES / OUTINGS TO FAMILIES WHO WOULD OTHERWISE BE UNABLE TO AFFORD THEM.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY);3. TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT GOOD HEALTH BY RAISING AWARENESS OF MEDICAL CONDITIONS SUCH AS CANCER AND DIABETES AND BY SUCH OTHER MEANS AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE;IN AFRICA:1. TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP BY SUPPORTING ORPHANAGES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND TO ASSIST THEM WITH EQUIPMENT TO HELP TOWARDS THEIR EDUCATION;2. TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT GOOD HEALTH BY OFFERING HEALTH CARE AWARENESS TO ASSIST COMMUNITIES WITH LIMITED ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES DUE TO FINANCIAL HARDSHIP AND TO PROVIDE EQUIPMENT TO MONITOR CONDITIONS SUCH AS BLOOD PRESSURE, DIABETIC SUGAR LEVEL TESTING AND SUCH OTHER HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT AS DEEMED APPROPRIATE AND TO OPERATE AND SUPPORT CARE HOMES; AND3. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION AMONG ELDERLY PERSONS WHO ARE EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY BECAUSE THEY LIVE IN CARE HOMES BY PROVIDING COMPANIONSHIP FOR THE RESIDENTS. | £2,660
<strong>Rhodes Foundation Scholarship Trust</strong> [Charity number: [702194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702194)]<br>The award of Scholarships to staff employed within the North West and Greater Manchester Probation Services to support  research visits to criminal justice agencies within the UK and international jurisdictions; The purpose is to learn from innovative best practice in rehabilitation, victim support and crime prevention and improve probation  policy, management and practice locally and nationally | £4,048
<strong>CADRENE SUPPORTED LIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1208622](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208622)]<br>4 THE CHARITY?S OBJECTS (?OBJECTS?) ARE SPECIFICALLY RESTRICTED TO THE FOLLOWING: THE CHARITY'S PURPOSE, IS THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AMONG PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THE BOROUGH OF DUDLEY BY PROVIDING ACCOMMODATION, ADVOCACY, GUIDANCE AND SUPPORT TO INDIVIDUALS IN NEED. AND TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE IN THE BOROUGH OF DUDLEY FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.  FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ?SOCIALLY EXCLUDED? MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS); CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY. | £79,638
<strong>THE JASON SPENCER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1151755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151755)]<br>We support families bereaved due to violent crime in the Nottinghamshire and East Midlands area.Offering one to one peer support at our Nottingham and Nottinghamshire offices,working with families referred to us from FLO's,Victim Support and self referrals.We also engage in fighting serious crime including knife crime. | £14,800
<strong>The Bridge</strong> [Charity number: [SC050930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050930)]<br>The objects of the incorporated association are.  1. (a) The primary aim of the organisation is to promote the Christian Faith and it's values amongst its members and the community at large. (b) All services shall be available to people in the locality and nobody shall be excluded based on their race, faith, gender, or ethnic origin. (c) The promotion of social inclusion for the public benefit among persons who are excluded from society because they are house-bound for any reason, but in particular those who are elderly or in poor health, and assisting them to integrate into society  The charity's object ('object') for the public benefit is to promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those people who are socially excluded and assisting them to integrate into society. For the purpose of this clause 'socially excluded' means being excluded from society, or parts of society, as a result of one or more of the following factors: unemployment. financial hardship. youth or old age. ill health (physical or mental). substance abuse or dependency including alcohol and drugs. discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, disability, ethnic origin, religion, belief, creed. poor educational or skills attainment. relationship and family breakdown. poor housing (that is housing that does not meet basic habitable standards). crime (either as a victim of crime or as an offender rehabilitating into society). To further and promote the research into loneliness and social isolation and to publish the useful results of that research. (d) The relief of unemployment for the public benefit in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment by the provision of advice and training concerning employment, job search and job club facilities and employability and skills workshops aimed at equipping and preparing individuals to enter or re-enter the labour market, voluntary work or further education. To further and promote the research into unemployment and to publish the useful results of that research. (Continued in Notes Section) | £9,237
<strong>GREEN LIGHT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000977](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000977)]<br>Wellbeing/educational programmes in woodland and green spaces, helping disadvantaged adults and children refocus and rebuild their lives; engaging them in skills learning and self development: NEET, victims of crime, ex-offenders, mental health, substance misuse, ex-forces, unemployed, disengaged from school, learning disabilities. Conservation of the environment. Train and deliver forest school. | £2,482,950
<strong>Vox Liminis</strong> [Charity number: [SC044343](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044343)]<br>4 The company's objects are to develop creative arts-based practices within the criminal justice system, both to support individuals to lead more positive and fulfilling lives and to better inform civic discourse on crime and punishment, thus promoting rehabilitation, reintegration and reduced reoffending. This will include: 4.1 Delivery of creative arts-based activities with people currently in or with previous personal experience of the criminal justice system, thus advancing education and recreation through the arts, and fostering: engagement in subsequent education and training opportunities, improving their conditions of life and future prospects 4.2 Using creative arts-based practices to advance the human rights of people affected by criminal justice processes, including people who have offended, victims of crime, and their families and communities, 4.3 Through participation in the arts, to restore and advance the citizenship of people with convictions, including by working in and for the development of the communities to which they belong. | £165,767
<strong>TOGETHERASONE</strong> [Charity number: [1202514](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202514)]<br>TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY. | £50,139
