# Offender support and rehabilitation `CJ101`

Offender support and rehabilitation is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](CJ.md) category.

774 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.38% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(prison|offender|parole)`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 186 | 0.26%
£10k - £100k | 205 | 0.29%
£100k - £250k | 91 | 0.41%
£250k - £500k | 81 | 0.73%
£500k - £1m | 61 | 0.88%
£1m - £10m | 75 | 0.82%
Over £10m | 21 | 0.93%
Total | 720 | 0.37%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 651 | 0.38%
oscr | 77 | 0.31%
ccni | 46 | 0.66%
Total | 774 | 0.38%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £291,074,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [1001957](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001957)]<br>PROVIDES A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL MISUSERS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN COMMUNTY AND PRISON ENVIRONMENTS. FROM EDUCATION AND PREVENTION TO COMMUNITY SERVICES AND RESIDENTIAL REHABILIATION.WE ALSO SUPORT THE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH DIFFICULITIES | £87,019,000
<strong>HESTIA HOUSING AND SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [294555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294555)]<br>Hestia delivers high quality & empowering housing, support, protection & care services in partnership with service users & local communities in 22 London boroughs. Hestia provides services to people with mental health needs, physical disability, substance misusers, offenders, women & children fleeing domestic abuse, older & young people, personal budget holders & other wider community groups. | £56,783,162
<strong>Kibble Education And Care Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC026917](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC026917)]<br>to carry on in paisley or elsewhere an institution to provide for the education and care of young people in -need thereof and the reclamation of youthful offenders against the law. | £48,784,485
<strong>Kibble School</strong> [Charity number: [SC010048](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010048)]<br>To carry on in Paisley or elsewhere an institution to provide for the education, care and development of troubled and disadvantaged young people and the reclamtion of youthful offenders against the law, and the doing of all such other things as are incidental or conducive to the attainment of that object. | £48,749,051
<strong>Royal Voluntary Service</strong> [Charity number: [SC038924](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038924)]<br>The relief of poverty, distress, suffering or need among all sections of the community primarily in the United Kingdom by all charitable means and particularly by providing: i) Assistance largely in kind and facilities for individuals in the community (ii) Assistance in kind to victims of emergencies or disasters (iii) Advice and facilities to relieve the needs of those in hospital, in prison or in the armed services and their families, and Such other purposes for the benefit of the community as shall be exclusively charitable | £41,481,000
<strong>PEOPLE POTENTIAL POSSIBILITIES</strong> [Charity number: [703163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-703163)]<br>Direct access hostels; youth services;floating support services;prison link worker scheme;mental health supported housing; advice services for young people; job seeking support young people;housing young people; street outreach;adults chronic exclusion work;education services; | £39,119,840
<strong>The Presbyterian Church in Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104483)]<br>Comment on matters of public importance from a Biblical perspective, issue statements on church policy relevant to the public domain. Maintain relationships with local, regional and national government, make representations and respond to consultations on relevant issues. Develop relationships with other Church bodies, charities, secular organisations and civic society. Monitor inter-church bodies of which the Presbyterian Church in Ireland is a member. Provide nominations to education and other state bodies where the Church is a stakeholder. Select, train and develop full and part-time ministers, offer pastoral care to them and their families. Select, train and support deaconesses and oversee their deployment. Maintain and manage Union Theological College, a third-level institution and a recognised College of Queen’s University, Belfast. Provide a conciliation service for church members. Resource presbyteries and congregations in worship; discipleship, nurture & teaching, pastoral care, world mission; and evangelism, outreach and good relations in the community and workplace. Enable the development of ministry among: youth and children; women; young adults; families. Provide marriage and counselling services. Provide support for local congregations in finance, health & safety and personnel issues. Develop strategic priorities in all-age mission in Ireland. Enable new church development and church planting. Support chaplaincy services in the Forces, Healthcare, Prisons, Universities and Colleges. Undertake overseas mission, develop partnerships with overseas Churches, send personnel overseas. Promote world development issues and facilitate thinking on issues of global concern. Deliver a social witness service to the wider community in partnership with appropriate organisations. Undertake policy development and administration of the Taking Care programme for the protection of children and vulnerable adults. Support a ministry to those with hearing impairment. | £31,881,960
<strong>Phoenix House</strong> [Charity number: [SC039008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039008)]<br>4 The charity's objects (Objects) are specifically restricted to the following: 4.1the treatment and care of those suffering from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and alcohol. 4.,3 the rehabilitation of those relieved from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and or alcohol. 4.4 the advancement of education of persons working or concerned in the field of drugs and or alcohol dependence or abuse. 4.5 the treatment, care and recovery of persons suffering from psychological or physical infirmity or an addictive lifestyle, including but not limited to persons who have addictions or mental health problems relating to gambling, smoking, drugs, alcohol or food or who by adverse circumstances or ill health are in need of help, counselling, or guidance in acquiring a settled way of life so that they may develop full maturity as responsible individuals and members of society.  4.6 the care, resettlement and provision of support and advice to offenders, ex-offenders and those who might offend so that they can be rehabilitated, live independently, develop positive personal relationships and contribute to their families and communities. and 4.7 to relieve the needs of persons, including but not limited to families and communities, arising out of their relationship with persons having the issues set out in the preceding objects, including the provision of and continued development of services and advice related to social housing, other housing, community engagement, education, employment, family and care support. 4.8 Nothing in the articles shall authorise an application of the property of the charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005.  | £30,442,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CARE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1125279](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125279)]<br>It was set up to support disadvantaged people, especially those from the Minority Ethnic backgrounds (BME), by alleviating poverty, reducing social isolation, advancing education, and fostering wellness. We support children, young e and older people who could not  access services as well as those with mental health. Also we provide rehabilitation to young offenders and victims of domestic abuse. | £24,000
<strong>THE NOEL BUXTON TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [220881](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220881)]<br>1. Supporting families affected by domestic violence. 2. Supporting prisoners, ex-offenders and their families. 3. Supporting sustainable and regenerative projects in Africa, particularly in Ethiopia, Kenya, Uganda, Somalia, Sudan and South Sudan | £216,152
<strong>PRISON ADVICE AND CARE TRUST (PACT)</strong> [Charity number: [219278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219278)]<br>Pact supports people affected by imprisonment to cope and to make a fresh start, including prisoners, people with convictions, their children and families. Our work reduces harm and reoffending. We work in prisons of all types, in courts and in communities. We reduce the risk of suicide and self-harm, safeguard children and vulnerable adults, and maintain and strengthen family relationships. | £9,798,000
<strong>Open Gates SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC042240](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042240)]<br>4.1 to advance education, training and personal development opportunities for ex-offenders. and 4.2 to relieve need for those disadvantaged and in particular to achieve lasting change in the lives of people at risk of re-offending.  | £70,916
<strong>SOUTH LONDON CONGOLESE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1053836](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053836)]<br>It provides the following services: information and advice, education, health (HIV/AIDS) employment, immigration, welfare, translation and interpretation.  Promotion of Congolese culture and teaching of mother tongue, hospital, prison and home visits.  Collection and distribution of clothes, household and other essential items to new asylum seekers and refugees etc.. | 
<strong>IIDECIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1197844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197844)]<br>We're working to empower victims and survivors of sexual violence by providing a free anonymous mobile app that connects people who share the same offender. | 
<strong>SAINT DANIEL'S FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1136074](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136074)]<br>Hospital Ministry: Visiting, giving gifts and showing love to bedridden patients in UK hospitalsUK Prison Ministry: Befriending and Re-integration of young ex-convicts to the society to reduce re-offending through empowerment training/skill acquisitions.Christian Fellowship Service in Grays-Essex, Bible club.Donation of Food, toys, books and clothes to orphans, widows and the needy | £9,734
<strong>AL MARKAZ AL ISLAAMI WOOD GREEN</strong> [Charity number: [1148850](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148850)]<br>TO PROMOTE ANY PURPOSE THAT IS CHARITABLE ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF ENGLAND AND WALES AND FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC AS MAY FROM TIME TO TIME BE DETERMINED BY THE TRUSTEES IN THEIR SOLE DISCRETION IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY: (A) RELIEVING PEOPLE IN NEED,(B) ADVANCING RELIGION (RELIGION IN THIS INSTANCE BEING A SYSTEM OF BELIEF THAT HAS CERTAIN CHARACTERISTICS THAT HAVE BEEN IDENTIFIED IN ENGLISH CASE LAW AND CLARIFIED IN THE CHARITIES ACT 2011) AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.(C) RELIEVING POVERTY AND RELIEVING AND ASSISTING PEOPLE IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD WHO ARE THE VICTIMS OF WAR OR NATURAL DISASTER, TROUBLE, OR CATASTROPHE BY SUCH CHARITABLE MEANS AS THE TRUSTEES SEE FIT,(D) PROMOTING AND PRESERVING GOOD HEALTH,(E) PROMOTING HEALTHY RECREATION THROUGH SPORT AND OTHER LEISURE-TIME OCCUPATIONS IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE,(F) PROMOTING SOCIAL INCLUSION BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BEING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED (BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY) SO THEY CAN PLAY A FULLER PART IN THEIR COMMUNITIES SO THAT THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE MAY IMPROVE,(G) ADVANCING EDUCATION, AND (H) ADVANCING IN LIFE AND HELPING YOUNG PEOPLE BY PROVIDING SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS.  | 
<strong>PRISON LINK</strong> [Charity number: [1150831](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150831)]<br>Support of prison offenders and their families during sentence and to support their resettlement back into the community. Also to help deter the risk of re-offending and a further custodial sentence. | £31,212
<strong>LIGHT CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1204313](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204313)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY ARE, FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC, THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH, THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF POVERTY, THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS AND THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH, THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED BECAUSE OF YOUTH, AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR OTHER DISADVANTAGE AND THE REHABILITATION AND EDUCATION OF OFFENDERS IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES IN THEIR ABSOLUTE DISCRETION THINK FIT. WITHOUT PREJUDICE TO THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, THE CHARITY’S ACTIVITIES SHALL INCLUDE THE OPERATION OF A CHURCH IN LANCASHIRE (AND IN SUCH OTHER PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM OR THE WORLD AS THE TRUSTEES FROM TIME TO TIME THINK FIT) AND ASSOCIATED SERVICES ADVANCING THE CHRISTIAN FAITH, IN LINE WITH THE FREE METHODIST CHURCH UK & IRL, AND THE PROVISION OF ADVICE, ASSISTANCE AND OTHER SERVICES. | 
