# Trafficking and modern slavery `CJ104`

Trafficking and modern slavery is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](CJ.md) category.

180 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.09% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(traffic?k?ing|modern slavery|forced labou?r|bonded labou?r|child labou?r)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 37 | 0.05%
£10k - £100k | 48 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 22 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 13 | 0.13%
£500k - £1m | 20 | 0.32%
£1m - £10m | 14 | 0.16%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.29%
Total | 160 | 0.08%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 158 | 0.09%
oscr | 13 | 0.05%
ccni | 9 | 0.13%
Total | 180 | 0.09%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £277,273,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000566)]<br>THE CHARITY'S MAIN ACTIVITIES ARE TO CONTINUE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION THROUGH EVANGELISTIC OUTREACH, PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SALVATION ARMY TERRITORIES, FACILITATING INTERNATIONAL PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, CRISIS RELIEF, WORKING IN COMMUNITIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES AS CLOSE TO THE FAMILY UNIT AND FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING. | £76,666,000
<strong>Migrant Help</strong> [Charity number: [SC041022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041022)]<br>2.1 The objects for which the Company is established ('the Objects') are:  2.1.1 The relief of sickness and financial hardship of Beneficiaries including: (a) information and advice on counselling, health, legal and welfare services and assistance. (b) advice on financial maintenance which may include the direct provision of financial assistance, goods and services. (c) advice on and provision of residential accommodation. (d) such other items or services as the Trustees in their discretion choose to provide.  2.1.2 To advance the education and training of Beneficiaries and their dependants in need thereof so as to advance them in life and assist them to adapt within a new community.  2.1.3 To promote for the public benefit the sound administration of the law by providing advocacy services to Beneficiaries and their dependants.  2.1.4 To advance the education of the public in general about the issues relating to human migration.  2.2 In this Article 2, 'Beneficiaries' are defined as individuals, being:  2.2.1 foreign nationals. or  2.2.2 victims of human trafficking or potential victims of human trafficking (regardless of their nationality).   who are in difficulty on their arrival, stay or residence in or departure from the UK. | £45,734,000
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £25,388,031
<strong>PASSAGE 2000</strong> [Charity number: [1079764](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079764)]<br>The Passage is based in the heart of Westminster, providing practical support and a wide range of services to help transform the lives of people who are, or are at risk of, street homelessness. We run a modern Resource Centre in Victoria, four accommodation projects, outreach and health services, homelessness prevention schemes and a pioneering modern slavery referral programme. | £12,325,654
<strong>HOPE FOR JUSTICE</strong> [Charity number: [1126097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126097)]<br>Hope for Justice works in the UK, USA, Ethiopia & Uganda to bring freedom from human trafficking and modern slavery by identifying victims, supporting survivors and preventing exploitation. Activities include outreach, community prevention, shelters, advocacy, training, and policy work. Our subsidiary, SFA helps organisations protect their supply chains against modern slavery and exploitation. | £9,521,946
<strong>Hope for Justice</strong> [Charity number: [SC045769](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045769)]<br>To advance the education of the public regarding people trafficking and slavery in particular but not exclusively through congresses, seminars, fora and publications. To relieve persons who are trafficked or enslaved or, have been or are at risk of being trafficked or enslaved.  | £9,521,946
<strong>Causeway Charitable Services</strong> [Charity number: [1110314](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110314)]<br>Causeway supports marginalised and vulnerable people to recover from trauma and develop safe and fulfilling futures. Our modern slavery and crime reduction services include safe houses, outreach and community programmes, holistic crisis interventions and signposting into counselling, training and employment. We drive  change nationally through research, campaigning and strategic partnerships. | £8,004,981
<strong>ASHIANA SHEFFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [1120401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120401)]<br>Ashiana has over thirty years' experience of working with Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic & Refugee (BAMER) adults, children & young people fleeing domestic & sexual abuse, forced marriage, human trafficking, gang violence & 'honour'-based violence. Ashiana offers safe accommodation & floating support to women & children, support & services for trafficked men & women in the UK on an outreach basis. | £5,619,163


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ANGELI FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1142054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142054)]<br>The prevention and relief of povertyThe advancement of educationThe relief of girls who may have been the victim of trafficking in particular by providing housing, financial support, legal advice and medical careProtection of girls from being harmed by trafficking in persons and/or by sexual abuse or domestic violenceCharity is interested in finding sponsoring parents for educating girls. | 
<strong>GURIA UK</strong> [Charity number: [1150974](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150974)]<br>Preventing vulnerable women and children becoming victims of human trafficking, violence, abuse and exploitation and supporting the victims through providing education, training, healthcare, and counselling as well as raising awareness about human trafficking issues. | £12,928
<strong>THE NOTTINGHAM ARIMATHEA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1121297](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121297)]<br>To provide temporary housing for homeless refused asylum seekers in Nottingham while they prepare to submit fresh claims for asylum or access Section 4 accommodation; and to combat homelessness among those, mostly single people, recently granted asylum or refugee status. Additionally to provide supported housing to survivors of modern slavery and/or human trafficking from emergency referrals. | £344,544
<strong>Holocaust Memorial Day Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC051197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051197)]<br>Objects 4 The charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to the following: 4.1 The promotion of the mental and moral improvement of mankind by: (a) commemorating and remembering the victims of the Holocaust (the persecution and mass murder of 6 million Jews by the Nazis and their accomplices during the period 1933-45) and the victims of the persecution and murder that resulted from the targeting of other groups of people by Nazi policies - including Roma, Sinti, black people, mentally and physically disabled people, lesbian and gay people and many of the Slavic peoples - by the promotion organisation and support of the annual Holocaust Memorial Day in accordance with the attached Statement of Purpose (Schedule 1) and Statement of Commitment (Schedule 2). (b) promoting a public sentiment in favour of the exercise and protection of those fundamental human rights which constitute freedom from genocide, torture, inhuman or degrading treatment, slavery and unlawful forced labour, the right to freedom of thought, conscience, expression and religion and the right to asylum from persecution. and (c) promoting harmony between communities including racial and religious harmony. 4.2 The advancement of education for the public benefit in the history of the Holocaust and also of the persecution and murder of other groups of people as part of Nazi policies together with the contemporary relevance of such events. 4.3 The promotion of equality and diversity for the public benefit and in particular the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of race, disability, sexual orientation, gender or religion by raising the awareness of the public concerning the causes and effects of racism and prejudice in society including the significant impact of the Holocaust and subsequent acts of systematic discrimination in particular those leading to genocide. | £1,136,633
<strong>THE ANSAR BURNEY WELFARE TRUST INTERNATIONAL (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1100178](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100178)]<br>The charity is Human and Civil Rights organisation working for Human Rights, human dignity, Anti-human trafficking, Anti-Slavery, humanitarian aid, Women and Children Rights, including shelter, medicines, legal assistance, Justice and working against Corruption and Terrorism to bring Peace. | £5,705
<strong>THE BIRCHALL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1109637](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109637)]<br>We empower people (adults and children/young people) affected by rape, sexual abuse, or sexualised violence to recover from their trauma so they can lead safe and fulfilling lives.  We cover issues including childhood abuse, child sexual exploitation, trafficking, sex workers and online abuse. We offer face to face and online counselling, play therapy, pre-trial therapy, education & peer support | £512,923
<strong>LOST2 FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1185033](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185033)]<br>The Lost2 Foundation has adopted a victim centered approach to the activities that we undertake.  This approach aligns with the 3P paradigm of Prevention, Protection and Prosecution.  This forms the fundamental framework for our work.Se will endeavor to enable and undertake work which combats Human trafficking, Terrorism and Violent crime and mitigates the effects of the aforementioned. | 
<strong>SEBBY'S CORNER</strong> [Charity number: [1196472](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196472)]<br>Sebby's Corner believes no child should go without the basic essentials they need to thrive. We support families living in poverty, families in temporary accommodation, women and their children who have fled domestic abuse, refugees, asylum seekers and victims of modern slavery and human trafficking. | £709,361
<strong>THE KANGYUR RINPOCHE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [284845](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284845)]<br>Direct support for street children in Nepal to enable them to attend school rather than begging or forced labour.  Support for Nuns and Monks arriving from Tibet - 50 on average per month.  Creating new classrooms in India for Tibetan children; after 3 years the Government takes over the running costs.  Offer scholarships to students and support families to enable them to buy food. | £644,889
<strong>No More Traffik</strong> [Charity number: [NI100755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100755)]<br>NO MORE TRAFFIK exists to educate, activate and connect people across Northern Ireland in their response to human trafficking. Human trafficking is the deception, movement and exploitation of human beings for profit and is currently the fastest growing form of organised crime. Raising awareness of the issue and equipping people to respond is a crucial part of our work. We believe that awareness leads to action and action leads to change. As well as running regular awareness sessions in schools, youth projects, churches and community groups, we provide tailored training for front line sectors identified as being key in addressing human trafficking. Every instance of trafficking involves a person being trafficked from a community into a community, therefore we believe that by working together a community has the power to prevent it. As a partner of STOP THE TRAFFIK Global, we facilitate, train and support eight NI community groups, each engaging with the issue in a way suiting their locality. NO MORE TRAFFIK works alongside government and law enforcement agencies. We support the initiatives of the Dept of Justice NI Human Trafficking Action Plan outlining the priorities and objectives for the year ahead across a range of areas including the prevention of human trafficking, the protection and support of victims and bringing perpetrators to justice. We are also an active member of the Dept of Justice’s Engagement group. We recognise that human trafficking is a complex and hidden crime which exploits the most vulnerable members of society. There isn’t an easy solution but we believe that the greatest impact can be achieved when we work together. It is a key aim of NO MORE TRAFFIK to help connect and co-ordinate the work of the anti- human trafficking movement within NI, seeking to achieve this by facilitating training sessions, organising high profile events and campaigns, and through online and social media. | 
