# Road safety `CJ103`

Road safety is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Crime and Justice](CJ.md) category.

260 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.13% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(road safety|traffic|advanced motor(cycl)?ists?|safe driving)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 173 | 0.24%
£10k - £100k | 46 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 8 | 0.04%
£250k - £500k | 8 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 9 | 0.10%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 251 | 0.13%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 210 | 0.12%
oscr | 35 | 0.14%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 260 | 0.13%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROAD SAFETY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1156300](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156300)]<br>The provision of funding to support research or practical interventions in road safety to reduce death and injury through education, engineering or enforcement or a combination of any of these approaches. | £102,117,204
<strong>TRAFFIC INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1076722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076722)]<br>TRAFFIC works to ensure that trade is not a threat to the conservation of nature.  TRAFFIC actively monitors and investigates wildlife trade and advocates policy messages to diverse audiences worldwide.  TRAFFIC International is the co-ordinating office of the TRAFFIC network with functions that include strategic direction, network operations, programme development and delivery, and communications | £12,254,247
<strong>Cyclists Touring Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC042541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042541)]<br>The objects for which the Club is established (the 'Objects') are to: 1.7.1 promote community participation in healthy recreation by promoting the amateur sport of cycling. cycle touring and associated amateur sports. 1.7. 2 preserve and protect the health and safety of the public by encouraging and facilitating cycling and the safety of cyclists. 1.7.3 advance education by whatever means the trustees think fit. including the provision of cycling, training and educational activities related to cycling. 1.7.4 promote the conservation and protection of the environment. touring as a means of adventure, recreation, character training and other forms of education, to stimulate by all possible means interest and participation, and in particular the interest and participation of young persons, in cycling, and to promote cycling competitions, rallies, rides and other events. 1.8.2 the promotion of the conservation and protection of the environment by any charitable means including, but not limited to: 1.8.1.1 promoting and increasing appreciation of the countryside and places of public interest, and 1.8.2.2 establishing and protecting access thereto by cycle and on foot, and 1.8.2.3 preserving and improving amenities, and 1.8.2.4 taking appropriate action to advance this charitable aim in Parliament and in and before Government departments, local and other public authorities, bodies and officers, landowners, developers and others. 1.8.3 the advancement of education by any charitable means including, but not limited to, education in road usage, road safety and in particular the safety of cyclists, and the promotion of any plans, measures, schemes or proposals designed to that end. For further purposes, please contact the charity directly. | £11,861,258
<strong>FIA FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1088670](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088670)]<br>The FIA Foundation manages and supports an international programme of activities promoting road safety, environmental protection and sustainable mobility, as well as funding specialist motor sport safety research. | £9,422,517
<strong>Cycling Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC029760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029760)]<br>1. The Company is established for charitable purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland and elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established: (a) to promote and advance awareness and understanding of the significant health, social, environmental and economic benefits of getting more people cycling safely and confidently for everyday travel, exercise and recreation. (b) to advance the education of the public generally and young people in particular in safer cycling and cycling road safety, including through delivery of cycle training for people of all ages. (c) to promote and support the design and delivery of inclusive and widely available routes, paths and associated facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy and sustainable transport. and (d) to undertake projects, programmes and activities of a charitable nature aimed at reducing barriers to cycling and contributing to achieving local and national objectives and outcomes in relation to improving health and wellbeing, economic and environmental sustainability and reducing inequalities. | £9,186,927
<strong>THE INSTITUTE OF ADVANCED MOTORISTS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [249002](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249002)]<br>IAM RoadSmart provides for the public an advanced driving and motorcycle test, and through its research into many aspects of road safety, seeks to become a significant influencer of road safety policy and practice. | £6,521,000
<strong>The Institute of Advanced Motorists Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC041201](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041201)]<br>To improve the standard of driving and the promotion of road safety for the public benefit, in particular by (but not limited to), the operation of an advanced driving test. | £6,521,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL ROAD ASSESSMENT PROGRAMME</strong> [Charity number: [1140357](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140357)]<br>iRAP was established to promote international road safety and quality of roads for the benefit of the public. | £4,306,341
<strong>Moto Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC041488](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041488)]<br>2.The objects of the Charity are to advance all purposes charitable under the law of England and Wales in particular but not exclusively by: (a) providing grants to charities in the United Kingdom. (b) advancing the education of the public in particular in the conservation , protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment. (c) protecting and preserving life in particular through the promotion of, and education in, road safety. (d) promoting for the general benefit of the local communities and their inhabitants, assistance to groups in organising and responding to identified problems and needs which affect such persons and by facilitating the provision of volunteers (drawn from the employees of Moto Hospitality Limited hereinafter know as 'Moto') to support such charitable projects for the benefit of such persons as the trustees see fit from time to time. and (e) through the establishment of the Moto Company Benevolent Fund, relieving those individuals working for Moto who are in need of relief as the trustees determine from time to time. | £1,091,072
<strong>EASST</strong> [Charity number: [1205232](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205232)]<br>Promoting public safety in Central and Eastern Europe by: reducing road deaths and injuries; improving road safety governance; improving enforcement; ensuring safe road design; influencing road user behaviour; promoting sustainable transport policies; improving driver training; building capacity for national road safety campaigning and education; facilitating regional and cross-border initiatives. | £1,085,042


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PETERBOROUGH ADVANCED MOTORCYCLISTS</strong> [Charity number: [1110414](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110414)]<br>Promoting the improvement of the standard of motorcycle riding and the advancement of road safety for the benefit of the public and the rider. | £4,201
<strong>SOUTH ESSEX GROUP OF ADVANCED MOTORISTS</strong> [Charity number: [299176](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299176)]<br>Dedicated to teaching and exemplifying safe, professional and considerate driving techniques. | £455
<strong>Cowal Dog Training Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC030574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030574)]<br>(i) The advancement of education of the public in the health, care, management, training, particularly road safety training, and control of dogs, for the safety of the public and the animals to enable those persons to become responsible dog owners  (ii) The preservation and protection of public health and the protection of the public from nuisance by promoting high standards of dog ownership | £11,392
<strong>INTERNATIONAL ROAD ASSESSMENT PROGRAMME</strong> [Charity number: [1140357](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140357)]<br>iRAP was established to promote international road safety and quality of roads for the benefit of the public. | £4,306,341
<strong>HOLLINWOOD CANAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1104942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104942)]<br>To promote awareness of, the history of, and restoration of the Hollinwood Branch Canal, for the benefit of all visitors and the local communities along the route, including regeneration of said areas. To promote use of the Canal corridor by all appropriate forms of waterborne and foot traffic, including the promotion of a public right of way along the length of the canal | £871
<strong>Somerset and Wiltshire Advanced Motorists</strong> [Charity number: [1050592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1050592)]<br>IAM Road Smart is the UK's leading road safety charity, dedicated to raising driving standards through our Advanced Driving Test, engaging with the road-using public, and influencing road safety policy | £3,422
<strong>Beragh Age Concern</strong> [Charity number: [NI103209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103209)]<br>Beragh Age Concern was formed in 1989 and is managed, and its activities delivered, on a voluntary basis. The main function of the group is for its members to meet weekly and have a meal together and exchange news, views and gossip. Easilink Community Transport brings people in from outlying rural areas and volunteers serve meals prepared by staff in the local Primary School. During this time members also play bingo, do armchair exercises or play Boccia to name but a few activities. Recent funding has allowed us to hire a bus and get members out walking and go for light refreshments. Occasionally we have trips away as weather and funds allow and we have people in giving talks such as road safety - as many of our members still drive, as well as community safety, benefit entitlements and local geography. We also invite groups to join us in musical nights and in turn we visit other groups. Our activities take place in the Cornerstone, Beragh. | £5,503
<strong>North West Ulster Group of Advanced Motorists and Motorcyclists (IAM Group No 8159)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100303](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100303)]<br>• IAM NW Ulster Group is one of over 200 local IAM affiliated groups throughout the UK (all charitable organisations in their own right) who provide the support and guidance for people wanting to prepare for and pass the IAM's advanced test and is unparalleled throughout the UK. The support of these groups means that the advanced test is available and achievable for ANYONE who has an interest in improving their driving or riding skills. • “Associates” are those trainees who join the group to receive driver training and “Observers” are full IAM members who have taken and passed their advanced driving test and wish to give of their own time (and indirectly money) to promote IAM driving to other Associates • Only Group “full” members are permitted to accompany Associates in a vehicle and provide them with the practical training necessary to achieve the consistent driving standard required to meet IAM standards. • Associates who pass the IAM advanced driving test are able to train as “Observers” (working with already qualified Observers and through "Observer Training Days") in order to prepare other Associates for their test. “Observers” have the opportunity to further their own training and become “National” (formerly Senior) Observers, which is a qualification gained by examination by Independent Staff Examiners • Other Activities include, but are not limited to: o (a) hearing visiting speakers, generally on driving related topics, o (b) site visits to premises generally related to road safety, accident management and accident prevention and o (c) taking part in driving related activities such as manoeuvring HGV’s on private property (most members are neither licensed nor insured to drive such vehicles in public places) so as to understand challenges faced by professional lorry drivers. • | £460
<strong>Lenadoon Community Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI101877](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101877)]<br>The Lenadoon Community Forum as a Community Organisation Promotes the physical/social/ Environmental regeneration of the greater Lenadoon area through the advancement of active citizenship/community development by providing programmes/facilities/services for individuals and community/voluntary groups and organisations. The Forum provides support and facilitation to a number of its member groups including residents associations/groups/networks and individuals on Housing/Environmental/Community Safety issues. It facilitates meetings between residents/N.I.H.E/Housing Associations/Belfast City Council/DRD/DoE and any other Statutory/Government Department who has a responsibility for Housing/Environment or Community Safety. It facilitates consultation and information events between residents and Statutory/Housing bodies on pertinent issues impacting on the local community from proposed new build housing schemes, planned housing improvement schemes, street cleaning, lighting, traffic calming, road/transport infrastructure and community safety issues in the Hot Spots identified by local residents. The Forum also hosts a number of events throughout the year in relation to older residents such as its Winter Warmer Event held prior to Christmas every year. In addition to the above the Forum Builds relationships with the Suffolk community across the Suffolk/Lenadoon Interface through the development of Joint Initiatives and cross community projects aimed at enhancing Safety around the interface and increasing the capacity for joint working. The Forum provides a lobbying role on a number of Strategic Boards to influence Policy and provision in the greater lenadoon area. It advances Education through its Training/Employment Project that helps address the needs of the Long Term Unemployed/Women Returners/Disadvantaged and provides a locally based Community Counselling Project to assist/support local people encountering Mental Health & Well Being Issues. | £681,903
<strong>CLEVELAND ADVANCED MOTORCYCLISTS</strong> [Charity number: [1058060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058060)]<br>Institute of Advanced Motorists affiliated group promoting road safety by providing information and advice fostering advanced motorcycle riding skills in the North East of England. | £1,076
