# Charity and VCS support `CV`

Charity and VCS support is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charity and VCS support](CV.md) category.

33,425 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 16.50% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(charities|charitable (organisations|bodies)+|NGOs?|non[ -]profits?|(voluntary( and community)?|third|charity) sector|cvs|umbrella)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 13,762 | 18.29%
£10k - £100k | 11,679 | 17.12%
£100k - £250k | 2,877 | 13.82%
£250k - £500k | 1,329 | 13.43%
£1m - £10m | 1,078 | 12.68%
£500k - £1m | 834 | 13.54%
Over £10m | 242 | 11.83%
Total | 31,801 | 16.66%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 28,775 | 16.88%
oscr | 2,780 | 11.16%
ccni | 1,870 | 25.98%
Total | 33,425 | 16.50%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHARITIES AID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [268369](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268369)]<br>Charities Aid Foundation (CAF) is a registered charity with a simple aim: to make charity donations go further.  We make it easier for donors to give and for charities to manage their money.We do this by enabling donors to give tax-efficiently to charities, helping employers run community programmes and offering charities low-cost banking, investment and fundraising services. | £1,147,196,000
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £330,600,000
<strong>METHODIST HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1083995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083995)]<br>Methodist Homes is a charity providing care, accommodation and support services for older people throughout Britain.  We are one of the largest charitable care providers in the sector and amongst the largest charities in Britain, providing services to 15,000 older people for nearly 70 years. | £268,825,000
<strong>Wheatley Homes Glasgow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC034054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034054)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £228,272,000
<strong>UK ONLINE GIVING FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1164887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164887)]<br>Our objective is to promote the effectiveness and efficiency of the charity sector by maximising donor contributions to eligible charities, through a Donor Advised Fund.  By operating with minimal administrative overheads, we can make it easier and more efficient for a broad demographic of donors to give, and worthy organisations to receive donations. | £182,573,000
<strong>THE UNITED KINGDOM COMMITTEE FOR UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [1072612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072612)]<br>UNICEF is the world's leading organisation working for children. UNICEF works in partnership with families, local communities, partners and governments in over 190 countries and territories to help every child realise their full potential.UNICEF UK raises funds for UNICEF's emergency and development work around the world and advocates for lasting change for children worldwide. | £179,503,000
<strong>LifeArc</strong> [Charity number: [SC037861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037861)]<br>To promote the public benefit by improving human health and medical research in particular by assisting the progress of the scientific discoveries and new technologies arising from research into therapeutic treatments, drugs, diagnostics, other technologies or information resources.  To work with industry, charities, universities, the health service and other relevant bodies as well as conducting its own research and development as needed to accelerate the progress of these discoveries and technologies to the stage at which they are (i) capable of being made generally available to the medical profession and the public for practical application for the improvement of health and/or (ii) are transferred or licensed to a third party to progress development of such discoveries or technologies towards such goals | £169,579,000
<strong>LIFEARC</strong> [Charity number: [1015243](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015243)]<br>SIC Code: 72110 - Research and experimental development on biotechnology1. Performing our own research in order to progress technologies and treatments for the benefit of human health.2. Work with universities, charities, public bodies and industry to accelerate the progression of  biomedical discoveries to develop new treatments or therapeutics for the medical profession and public. | £169,579,000
<strong>UBS UK Donor-Advised Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [1153551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153551)]<br>MAKING GRANTS TO UK CHARITIES | £163,737,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Pomeroy Social Activity Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI100559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100559)]<br>Pomeroy Social Activity Group has the ambition of improving the quality of life experienced by all members of the Pomeroy Community. Our rural community is based within one of the most isolated areas in Northern Ireland in relation to proximity to services and amenities; therefore it is imperative that the recreational services and activities which we provide continue to exist in order to address this shortfall in provision within the proximity of Pomeroy and Mid Ulster. Our organisation is fully committed to exploring every avenue to ensure that community life within Pomeroy is as socially inclusive, safe and as intergenerational as possible. Part of our fundraising efforts have included running a 'Santa's grotto' event in the run up to Christmas to raise funds aimed at increasing the capacity of our organisation to hold more activities within the area. A large proportion of the activities which we provide Pomeroy residents with focus on engaging marginalised members of the community, such as the elderly, women and foreign nationals that have recently immigrated to the area. We also run tea mornings and knitting groups for elderly members of the Pomeroy community to engage in, we believe that the social aspect of the activities aforementioned provide our elders the opportunity to socialise and engage with their peers in relaxing, tolerant and safe environment. We have the ambition of hosting a number of fundraising events in collaboration with other community groups operating within the area in an effort to emphasise our commitment to community life within Pomeroy. | £140,164
<strong>Dunsford Arts & Crafts Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI100804](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100804)]<br>The group members meet on a Thursday from 10 a.m. until 12 noon in Dunsford Church of Ireland Hall, Church Road, Chapeltown, Ardglass BT30 7SZ. The group gives people who live on their own a meeting place to get together with others to do arts and crafts. The hall is used on licence from Dunsford Church of Ireland parish. Members come from the rural district of Lecale and from Downpatrick town and its surrounds. Members are mostly in the 60 + age group, but with a number of younger folk. We avail of support and information from various organisations and tutors to deliver an interesting programme of activities throughout the year. The group does not hire any staff, all committee members being volunteers. Activities include: Watercolour painting, Patchwork and other fabric based needlecraft, Crocheting, Knitting, Floral Art, Felting, etc.... | £7,224
<strong>TOWN LANDS (SENDAL'S AND BELL'S CHARITIES)</strong> [Charity number: [244757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244757)]<br>Applies rent from Town Lands towards running costs of the church of St Peter and St Paul at Salle | £632
<strong>THE HANDS AROUND THE WORLD CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1097626](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097626)]<br>To help children and young people disadvantaged through poverty, disability or otherwise vulnerable, in partnership with locally-managed centres in Africa and India. We also support well-prepared volunteers to offer practical help, skill-sharing and friendship. | £295,310
<strong>THE CHALDEAN CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1153713](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153713)]<br>The Charity make grants to other registered charities, particularly those which work with and for the benefit of children, but also in furtherance of the other charitable purposes within the Charity's objects as the Trustees in their discretion determine. | £13,611
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Hamilton Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC002589](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002589)]<br>4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £1,045
<strong>ONE UNITY AID</strong> [Charity number: [1178114](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178114)]<br>PROVIDING FOOD, CLOTHS AND OTHER ITEMS TO THE HOMELESS AND ASSISTING INDIVIDUALS IN NEED ,TO RELIEF  POVERTY.WORKING WITH OTHER CHARITIES AND COMMUNITY CENTRES TO FURTHER THE CAUSE.OUTREACH PROGRAMMES TO PROMOTE RACIAL AND RELIGIOUS HARMONY. | £2,637
<strong>THE GILANDER FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1070793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070793)]<br>The provision of donations to a variety of causes and charities that the Trustees wish, at their discretion, to support. This also covers their interest to help charities within the local area of Northamptonshire and embraces local branches and initiatives of some of the larger UK charities. | £53,016
<strong>ST MARIE'S ROMAN CATHOLIC HOME SCHOOL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1023296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1023296)]<br>It raises funds for extra-curricular activities | £19,327
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland - Buckie Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC033339](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033339)]<br>The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £116,283
