# Umbrella bodies `CV103`

Umbrella bodies is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charity and VCS support](CV.md) category.

850 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.42% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(voluntary (and community )?(action|sector)|umbrella organisation|CVS|council for voluntary service|VCS)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 173 | 0.24%
£10k - £100k | 178 | 0.25%
£100k - £250k | 89 | 0.40%
£250k - £500k | 89 | 0.82%
£500k - £1m | 109 | 1.63%
£1m - £10m | 138 | 1.53%
Over £10m | 17 | 0.78%
Total | 793 | 0.41%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 576 | 0.34%
oscr | 225 | 0.91%
ccni | 49 | 0.68%
Total | 850 | 0.42%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £151,659,000
<strong>Nesta</strong> [Charity number: [SC042833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042833)]<br>The objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: 2.1 To advance education, and in particular the study of innovation, by the promotion of research and the publication of the useful results thereof, in: 2.1.1 Science and technology. 2.1.2 The arts. 2.1.3 The efficiency of public services. 2.1.4 The Voluntary sector and social enterprise. and 2.1.5 Industry and commerce. 2.2 To advance: 2.2.1 Science and technology 2.2.2 The arts 2.2.3 The efficiency of public services 2.2.4 The voluntary sector 2.2.5 Industry and commerce and social enterprise which (a) Relieves poverty (b) Relieves unemployment (c) Advances health (d) Advances environmental protection or improvement and sustainable development (e) Advances citizenship or community development through or by encouraging and supporting innovation. 'The voluntary sector' means charities and voluntary organisations. Charities are organisations, which are established for exclusively charitable purposes in accordance with the law of England and Wales. Voluntary organisations are independent organisations, which are established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and which are not permitted by their constitution to make a profit for private distribution. Voluntary organisations do not include local government or other statutory authorities. 'Sustainable development' means 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. 2.3 To advance any other purpose which is recognised as exclusively charitable under the laws of England and Wales and Scotland. | £52,412,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £41,387,000
<strong>High Life Highland</strong> [Charity number: [SC042593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042593)]<br>4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large, with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education.   4.5 To advance health.  4.6  To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time, through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by The Highland Council), which contribute to advancing wellbeing (primarily the wellbeing of residents of the area served by The Highland Council) including the operation, management, development and (where appropriate) delivery of the following facilities and services:- (MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE CHARITY DIRECTLY) | £38,515,065
<strong>WALES COUNCIL FOR VOLUNTARY ACTION</strong> [Charity number: [218093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-218093)]<br>WCVA is the national membership organisation for voluntary organisations in Wales.  WCVA promotes  volunteering, good governance, sustainability and engagement by providing information, training, advice and support to charities, voluntary and community groups & social enterprises. WCVA manages several grant & loan schemes. | £33,223,612
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000
<strong>The Snooks Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052180)]<br>5.3 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and  (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 5.3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 5.3.2 The advancement of education. 5.3.3 The advancement of religion. 5.3.4 The advancement of health (including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering). 5.3.5 The saving of lives. 5.3.6 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 5.3.7 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 5.3.8 The advancement of public participation in sport (and 'sport' means sport which involves physical skill and exertion). 5.3.9 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are :- 5.3.9.1 primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. or 5.3.9.2 available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 5.3.10 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.3.11 The promotion of religious or racial harmony. 5.3.12 The promotion of equality and diversity. 5.3.13 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 5.3.14 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). 5.3.15 The advancement of animal welfare. 5.3.16 The relief of unemployment. 5.3.17 The advancement of philosophical belief. 5.3.18 The promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces. | £31,371,100
<strong>FARESHARE</strong> [Charity number: [SC052672](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052672)]<br>4. Objects  (a) The charity's objects (the Objects) are specifically restricted to the following:  A. The prevention and relief of poverty and the preservation and promotion of good nutrition, good health and social improvement among people who are suffering from social, economic or emotional distress in such ways as the trustees may in their absolute discretion think fit but particularly through:  (A) the collection and redistribution of surplus food. and  (B) the encouragement of members of the public to undertake voluntary work.  B. the advancement of public education in particular but not exclusively by providing training in the voluntary sector.  C. the furtherance, for the benefit of the public, of the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment through the reduction of waste (in particular food waste) and its adverse environmental impacts  (b) Nothing in these articles shall authorise an application of the property of the charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 or section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008 | £23,067,000
<strong>Leisure & Culture Dundee</strong> [Charity number: [SC042421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042421)]<br>To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. To advance public participation in sport. To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. To advance education. To advance health. To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Dundee City Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Dundee) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes,  and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and delivery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people. | £19,052,014
<strong>Land Restoration Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043833)]<br>3 1 to promote the conservation, protection and Improvement of the physical and natural environment anywhere In the United Kingdom and Insofar as may be charitable according to the laws of England and Wales In other parts of the world, 3 2 to create, provide, Improve and/or maintain, and own open spaces, woodlands and forests for the benefit of the public to be used as areas of Informal recreation, play, sport or other leisure time activities and for any other purpose consistent With this object and for the benefit of the community anywhere In the United Kingdom, 3 3 to provide facilities In the Interest of social welfare for recreation and leisure time occupation With the object of  improving the conditions of life for those living or working anywhere In the United Kingdom, 3 4 to advance public education in environmental matters and other ways of better conserving, protecting and improving the physical and natural environment, 3 5 to promote sustainable development for the benefit of the public by the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources and the promotion of biological diversity, 3 6 to advance the education of the public In subjects relating to sustainable development and the protection, enhancement and rehabilitation of the environment, (Sustainable development means 'development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs' ) 3 7 to promote the voluntary sector for the benefit of the public by supporting local community based groups to maintain open spaces, woodlands and forests for the benefit of the public to be used as areas of Informal recreation, play or other leisure time activities and for any other purpose consistent with this object and for the benefit of the community anywhere In the United Kingdom MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED CONTACT CHARITY FOR FULL VERSION | £17,686,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HARROGATE AND AREA CVS LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1144758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144758)]<br>SINCE 1988 HADCA HAS PROVIDED INNOVATIVE SPECIALIST INFORMATION, RESOURCES & SUPPORT TO VOLUNTEERS, CHARITIES & COMMUNITY GROUPS TO ENABLE THEM TO MAKE A POSITIVE DIFFERENCE IN HARROGATE DISTRICT. SERVICES INCLUDE INFORMATION UPDATES; COMMUNITY INFORMATION & VOLUNTEERING DIRECTORIES; NETWORKS; PRACTICAL SUPPORT TO HELP PEOPLE REMAIN INDEPENDENT AT HOME; HARROGATE COMMUNITY HOUSE | £303,750
<strong>Urras Coimhearsnachd Bhradhagair agus Arnoil (Bragar & Arnol Community Trust)</strong> [Charity number: [SC044094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044094)]<br>The organisation's purposes are:  4.1 To provide recreational and social facilities and economic activities to improve the lives of the inhabitants in Bragar and Arnol and their encompassed areas through the preservation, management and development for community use of the former Bragar School buildings and grounds.  4.2 To advance citizenship and community development and in particular the regeneration and improvement of the physical, social and economic infrastructure of the area through assisting people disadvantaged because of social and economic circumstance, promoting voluntary action and encouraging civic values   4.3 To advance the arts, heritage, language and culture of the area through public exhibitions, community led services, and by providing facilities, namely the establishment and maintenance of a museum with a long-term collection preserving and transmitting knowledge, history and culture for present and future generations.  4.4 To advance education through encouraging a better understanding of the built and natural environment of the area. and through community capacity building and the development of individual skills and capabilities to improve the lives of the inhabitants of the area and the public in general.  4.5 To provide for the relief of poverty in all its forms and to promote improvement in the health of the individuals in the area, through services and provisions arising from the development of the facilities in the area and in particular at or around the former school.  4.6 To support where possible charitable institutions with related purposes by fostering a community spirit for these and other such purposes as may by law be deemed to be charitable  | £118,199
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000
<strong>COMMUNITY ACTION: MK</strong> [Charity number: [1092047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092047)]<br>Information and advice for community groups and charities throughout Milton KeynesOrganising and supporting networking and partnerships, Encouraging a co-ordinated voice for VCS, Funding advice service, Training and learning opportunities, Community work and supporting residentsMilton Keynes volunteer brokerage | £560,324
<strong>WINTERTON AND DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1208598](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208598)]<br>3.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE CLUB ARE SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE IN ENGLAND & WALES, INCLUDING IN PARTICULAR:3.1.1 THE ADVANCEMENT OF CITIZENSHIP BY:3.1.1.1 PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP;3.1.1.2 ENCOURAGING MEMBERS TO TAKE AN ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE CIVIC, CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND MORAL WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY;3.1.1.3 PROVIDING A FORUM FOR THE OPEN DISCUSSION OF ALL MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST; PROVIDED THAT PARTISAN POLITICS AND SECTARIAN RELIGION SHALL NOT BE DEBATED BY MEMBERS;3.1.1.4 ENCOURAGING SERVICE-MINDED PEOPLE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITY WITHOUT PERSONAL REWARD AND ENCOURAGING THE PROMOTION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS IN COMMERCE, INDUSTRY, PROFESSIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND PRIVATE ENDEAVOURS; 3.1.1.5 SUPPORTING YOUTH TO DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;3.1.2 PROMOTING THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY ASSOCIATING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF PEOPLE IN LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES;3.1.3 PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING;3.1.4 THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID AND DISASTER RELIEF;3.1.5 THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH OR THE SAVING OF LIVES BY PREVENTING AVOIDABLE BLINDNESS, ASSISTING DISABLED PEOPLE TO LEAD INDEPENDENT LIVES OR HELPING TO PREVENT OR MANAGE HEALTH ISSUES;3.1.6 PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND/OR3.1.7 PROMOTING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTHY RECREATION. | 
<strong>KESWICK LIONS CLUB CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1176723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176723)]<br>1. The advancement of citizenship.2. Promoting the Voluntary Sector for the public benefit.3. Promoting volunteering.4. The relief of poverty and the relief of those in need - humanitarian aid and disaster relief.5. The advancement of health or the saving of lives.6. Promoting conservation, protection and improvement of the environment.7. Promoting participation in healthy recreation. | £48,335
<strong>ATTEND</strong> [Charity number: [1113067](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113067)]<br>To promote the efficiency and effectiveness of charities and the promotion of the voluntary sector for the benefit of the public by associating together volunteers and organisations in a common effort to promote charitable purposes (including the promotion of health and the relief of financial hardship). | £646,414
<strong>COVENTRY HOLYBUSH LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1206931](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206931)]<br>1.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE CLUB ARE SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE IN ENGLAND & WALES, INCLUDING IN PARTICULAR:1.1.1 THE ADVANCEMENT OF CITIZENSHIP BY:1.1.1.1 PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP;1.1.1.2 ENCOURAGING MEMBERS TO TAKE AN ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE CIVIC, CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND MORAL WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY;1.1.1.3 PROVIDING A FORUM FOR THE OPEN DISCUSSION OF ALL MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST; PROVIDED THAT PARTISAN POLITICS AND SECTARIAN RELIGION SHALL NOT BE DEBATED BY MEMBERS;1.1.1.4 ENCOURAGING SERVICE-MINDED PEOPLE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITY WITHOUT PERSONAL REWARD AND ENCOURAGING THE PROMOTION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS IN COMMERCE, INDUSTRY, PROFESSIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND PRIVATE ENDEAVOURS; 1.1.1.5 SUPPORTING YOUTH TO DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;1.1.2 PROMOTING THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY ASSOCIATING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF PEOPLE IN LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES;1.1.3 PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING;1.1.4 THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID AND DISASTER RELIEF;1.1.5 THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH OR THE SAVING OF LIVES BY PREVENTING AVOIDABLE BLINDNESS, ASSISTING DISABLED PEOPLE TO LEAD INDEPENDENT LIVES OR HELPING TO PREVENT OR MANAGE HEALTH ISSUES;1.1.6 PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND/OR1.1.7 PROMOTING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTHY RECREATION. | 
<strong>THE FOSTERING NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [280852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280852)]<br>These are membership services, policy and practice,  publishing and training, advice & mediation work, information services and consultancy and projects. | £8,411,919
<strong>THE PETER MINET TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [259963](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-259963)]<br>Peter Minet Trust is an independent funder making unrestricted multi-year grants to small, local and inspiring charities based in Lambeth and Southwark. We fund charities that are rooted in their communities and bring communities together, helping residents overcome severe and multiple challenges. We work with other local funders to strengthen the voluntary sector in Lambeth and Southwark. | £178,336
