# Fundraising `CV102`

Fundraising is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charity and VCS support](/data/ukcat/CV) category.

16,239 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 8.02% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(fund[ -]?rais(ing|es?)|charitable giving|rais(es?|ing) (funds|money)|attract donations)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 8,520 | 11.29%
£10k - £100k | 6,248 | 9.16%
£100k - £250k | 558 | 2.69%
£250k - £500k | 225 | 2.29%
£1m - £10m | 179 | 2.10%
£500k - £1m | 113 | 1.84%
Over £10m | 32 | 1.57%
Total | 15,875 | 8.31%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 15,143 | 8.89%
ccni | 624 | 8.66%
oscr | 472 | 1.89%
Total | 16,239 | 8.02%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHARITIES AID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [268369](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268369)]<br>Charities Aid Foundation (CAF) is a registered charity with a simple aim: to make charity donations go further.  We make it easier for donors to give and for charities to manage their money.We do this by enabling donors to give tax-efficiently to charities, helping employers run community programmes and offering charities low-cost banking, investment and fundraising services. | £1,147,196,000
<strong>DISASTERS EMERGENCY COMMITTEE</strong> [Charity number: [1062638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062638)]<br>DEC brings together 15 of the UK's leading humanitarian agencies. At times of major humanitarian crisis, DEC works with its members, broadcast and other partners to launch a fundraising appeal to the UK public. The proceeds of each appeal are distributed to DEC's member agencies to enable them to deliver humanitarian programmes to help those most affected. | £215,698,000
<strong>THE UNITED KINGDOM COMMITTEE FOR UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [1072612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072612)]<br>UNICEF is the world's leading organisation working for children. UNICEF works in partnership with families, local communities, partners and governments in over 190 countries and territories to help every child realise their full potential.UNICEF UK raises funds for UNICEF's emergency and development work around the world and advocates for lasting change for children worldwide. | £179,503,000
<strong>PRISM THE GIFT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1099682](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099682)]<br>Encouraging charitable giving | £115,257,409
<strong>GREAT ORMOND STREET HOSPITAL CHILDREN'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1160024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160024)]<br>Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity undertakes fundraising activities in order to invest in development, research and innovation, welfare and clinical development projects, medical equipment and capital infrastructure, all of which will enhance Great Ormond Street Hospital's ability to transform the health and well being of children and young people. | £107,691,000
<strong>NPT Transatlantic Limited</strong> [Charity number: [1153376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153376)]<br>The Trust's objective is to raise funds from a broad range of donors and make grants to Registered Charities concerned with the advancement of such exclusively charitable objects as the Trustees shall from time to time determine. | £87,547,579
<strong>CHARITIES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [327489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327489)]<br>Charities Trust works with organisations, individuals and other charities to increase charitable giving with particular emphasis on tax effective donations. It does this by providing donation management services including payroll giving, online and offline sponsorship facilities and processing of donations for charity appeals. | £80,089,500
<strong>United Kingdom for UNHCR</strong> [Charity number: [1183415](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183415)]<br>UK for UNHCR fundraises on behalf of the UNHCR in order to support their assistance programmes, including promoting awareness, encouraging the advancement of education for and social inclusion, for the relief and protection of refugees, asylum seekers, internally displaced and stateless persons. | £55,748,000
<strong>PAYPAL GIVING FUND UK</strong> [Charity number: [1110538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110538)]<br>PayPal Giving Fund UK harnesses the power of technology to make giving a part of everyday life, benefiting charities across the UK. We pursue our vision by partnering with leading internet businesses, developing innovative programs that introduce charitable giving in relevant and engaging ways to new audiences. The funds we raise enable us to support a wide range of charitable activities. | £55,507,197
<strong>University of Aberdeen Development Trust SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050996)]<br>The Organizations purposes are: To fundraise in accordance with  the Code of Fundraising Practice from time to time or other reputable Code or protocol adopted as best practice and to manage the investment and disbursement of the funds of the Trust for the advancement of education, health, the arts, heritage and science,  for the primary benefit of the University in pursuance of its Strategic Plan from time to time, the University community (undergraduates, postgraduates, alumni and others) including but not limited to the following  | £54,583,157


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Environmental Funders Network</strong> [Charity number: [SC050579](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050579)]<br>3. Objects The object of the CIO is the promotion of the effective use of resources for charitable purposes by charitable and non-charitable bodies in the Environmental Sector, being the part of the voluntary sector concerned with the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment, for the benefit of the public by:  (a) liaising with, researching and acting as a forum for the exchange of information between organisations working in the Environmental Sector, in order to identify how the sector might better achieve charitable purposes in conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment, including but not limited to identifying funding gaps and gaps in service provision in the sector.   (b) providing advice and information to existing and potential funders of charities and non-charitable bodies working in the Environmental Sector to encourage them to increase their funding and to provide funding in a way which increases the effective application of funding for charitable purposes by the Environmental Sector.   (c) providing charities working in the Environmental Sector with strategic and fundraising advice. and   (d) such other means as the charity trustees shall from time to time think fit.  | £714,393
<strong>MADELAINARTZ</strong> [Charity number: [1148541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148541)]<br>To hold Fundraising Art Exhibitions and Spiritual Events in order to raise funds and awareness for Fibromyalgia, To run Creative Workshops in Mental Health and Well Being for Chronic pain and Fibromyalgia sufferers. Most activities are held within our church space. We currently operate from West Kirby Spiritualist Church and Madelainartz ONLINE platforms due to Covid Changes. | £786
<strong>SIERRA LEONE ASSOCIATION OF TRINITONIANS UK</strong> [Charity number: [1197421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197421)]<br>To organise fund raising activities in support of the Holy Trinity Church, Kissy Road, Freetown. Sierra Leone and its ancillaries to propagate the Christian doctrine, promote education and enhance the structure of the community through poverty alleviation. | £3,297
<strong>FRIENDS OF KELLING CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1206424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206424)]<br>(A) THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION BY RAISING FUNDS TO MAINTAIN REPAIR RESTORE PRESERVE IMPROVE AND RECONSTRUCT FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE FABRIC OF THE CHURCH OF ST MARY?S KELLING, ITS FITTINGS, FURNITURE, STAINED GLASS, ORNAMENTS AND OTHER CHATTELS AND ITS CHURCHYARD. | 
<strong>FRIENDS OF LITTLE HOUGHTON SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1070846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070846)]<br>Fundraising in order to provide additional amenities for Children of Little Houghton Primary School. | £6,918
<strong>DODDINGHURST VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [301295](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-301295)]<br>THE VILLAGE HALL IS USED THROUGHOUT OUR LOCAL COMMUNITY.  HIRING FOR TEA DANCES, PRE-SCHOOL, DANCE , INDOOR BOWELS CLUBS ,AND SO ON.  ALSO USED FOR WEDDINGS, FUNERALS AND CHRISTENINGS.  IN THE SUMMER TIME THE FIELDS AROUND THE HALL ARE USED FOR FUND RAISING EVENTS WITH THE VILLAGE HALL BEING THE CENTRE. | £36,865
<strong>FRIENDS OF OTTERHAMPTON COUNTY PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1042282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042282)]<br>organising fund raising events to help raise money for the school. To help provide resources that help the childrens learning | £2,514
<strong>TUNSTALL C.E (AIDED) PRIMARY SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1062784](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062784)]<br>Fund raising activities involving school children, parents or teachers to enhance the education facilities for the children attending Tunstall (CofE Aided) primary school | £20,385
<strong>Parents, Teachers and Friends Association of St Josephs P.S. Strangford</strong> [Charity number: [NI101759](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101759)]<br>The organisation holds meetings to organise and run events to fund raise for the school. They also help at all school functions and many of them are police checked to act as voluntary support when children are on class visits etc. They will also be involved in school productions and will give a helping hand when they have a particular skill that can be used to the children's benefit in school. They will seek out prizes for draws and will liaise with local businesses to gain any sponsorship that can be accessed. The organisation is totally committed to supporting the school in all that it does and are willing to give generously of their time. They keep their own bank account and all literature involved and are always willing to donate when approached by the school. All of this is for the benefit of the children in St. Joseph's and the efforts of the organisation is greatly appreciated throughout the community. | £3,643
<strong>THE ROYAL HALL RESTORATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1090032](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090032)]<br>FUND RAISING ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS TO GENERATE INCOME TO COMPLETE THE RESTORATION OF THE ROYAL HALL IN HARROGATE. | £11,299
