# Volunteering `CV104`

Volunteering is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charity and VCS support](CV.md) category.

6,413 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(volunteer(ing|s)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,718 | 2.34%
£10k - £100k | 2,258 | 3.26%
£100k - £250k | 953 | 4.48%
£250k - £500k | 527 | 5.09%
£500k - £1m | 310 | 4.81%
£1m - £10m | 307 | 3.49%
Over £10m | 40 | 1.87%
Total | 6,113 | 3.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,225 | 2.47%
ccni | 1,174 | 16.28%
oscr | 1,014 | 4.12%
Total | 6,413 | 3.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £330,600,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £174,925,000
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [296645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296645)]<br>Alzheimer's Society staff and volunteers provide services to people affected by dementia, including day care and home care, support and befriending services across England, Wales, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Northern Ireland. We provide information and training, and every year we invest in research. We campaign for the rights of people with dementia and those who care for them. | £131,362,000
<strong>CATS PROTECTION</strong> [Charity number: [203644](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-203644)]<br>Homing, neutering and the provision of information.  Cats Protection operates through a network of around 250 volunteer led branches throughout the United Kingdom.  We are also registered with OSCR.  In addition to the branch network we have 32 purpose built cat adoption centres.  Branches and adoption centres work side by side to deliver cat work. | £89,272,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £73,334,000
<strong>ELIZABETH FINN CARE</strong> [Charity number: [207812](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207812)]<br>Helping eligible residents of the UK who live in poverty by means of regular financial allowances, grants and advice from dedicated case workers and volunteers.Turn2us website and helpline service is also provided to help anybody living in poverty in the UK to access the funds they are entitled to as regards state benefits and financial support from benevolent charities. | £45,297,000
<strong>ROYAL VOLUNTARY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1015988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015988)]<br>The charity delivers practical support through the power of volunteering so that older people can get more out of life and aims to relieve poverty, distress and suffering in various sections of the community, primarily in the UK, by the provision of various services for individuals and such other purposes for the benefit of the community. | £42,359,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £41,387,000
<strong>High Life Highland</strong> [Charity number: [SC042593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042593)]<br>4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large, with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education.   4.5 To advance health.  4.6  To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time, through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by The Highland Council), which contribute to advancing wellbeing (primarily the wellbeing of residents of the area served by The Highland Council) including the operation, management, development and (where appropriate) delivery of the following facilities and services:- (MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE CHARITY DIRECTLY) | £38,515,065


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FIR TREE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1127484](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127484)]<br>The centre is use most evenings by the youth of the area. Keeping the children of the roads  occuping them with games, arts and crafts, pool, Wii's, computers and other activities. Most days are taken up by the adults - slimming club, coffee mornings etc During school holidays the centre is use by the children, where volunteers and parents along with bought in activities keep them occupied. | £74,971
<strong>Diversity  Rights</strong> [Charity number: [1098916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098916)]<br>POVERTY RELIEF AND SOCIAL EXCLUSION PREVENTION.ADVICE, ADVOCACY, GUIDANCE, COUNSELLING, INFORMATION PROVISION.RELIEVING UNEMPLOYMENT AND ORGANISING TRAINING, VOLUNTEERING SCHEMES AND WORK EXPERIENCE. IMPLEMENTING COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPING CAPACITY AND SKILLS.WORK WITH PARENTS, SUPPORT YOUNG PEOPLE NEETS AND EDUCATION OF BME SCHOOL CHILDREN. | £28,955
<strong>Glenorchy and Innishail Community Orchard</strong> [Charity number: [SC043638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043638)]<br>Glenorchy & Innishail Community Orchard is a non-profit making organisation and its objective is to advance citizenship or community development by: Promoting all aspects of planting and maintaining new and established orchards in the Community Council area of Glenorchy & Innishail Maintaining and developing the knowledge and skills used in planting, propagation etc. by sharing knowledge and research Helping preserve the heritage of Scotland?s orchards by establishing a mapping database of orchards and fruit varieties in the Glenorchy & Innishail area Encouraging sustainability and biodiversity and improving the local and wider environment Creating local networks and markets for fruit Promoting healthy eating and access to locally grown food Promoting the planting of fruit trees as part of community development and educational projects Providing local opportunities for volunteering and community involvement Encouraging the integration of orchards into the design and planning of the urban and rural environments | £3,473
<strong>Friends of Spruce</strong> [Charity number: [NI102529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102529)]<br>The Friends of Spruce is established to support service users and generally to support the charitable work of Spruce House. Educate the public in the needs of service users of Spruce House and mobilise, encourage, foster and maintain the interest and support of the public in Spruce. Foster co-operation and communication between service users in the Trust area, the voluntary sector. Provide or assist in the provision and maintenance of equipment, amenities and facilities not otherwise provided by statutory services. Provide or secure the provision of social activities and recreational facilities for service users of Spruce House. Promote and carry out, or assist in promoting and carrying out research, surveys and investigations and publish the useful results thereof. Organise or assist in organising meetings, outings, events, lectures, classes and exhibitions and publish or assist in publishing reports, periodicals, recordings, books or other documents or information. Obtain, collect and receive money by way of grants, donations, bequests, legacies or other lawful method, provided that the Committee may not engage in any form of permanent trading. Support volunteers with relevant skills to carry out the objects of the Committee. Employ and pay any person or persons, not being a member of the Executive Body to supervise, organise and carry out on the work of the committee and make all reasonable and necessary provision of the payment of remuneration to employees. To promote and organise co-operation in the achievement of the above objects and to that end to work in association with local authorities and voluntary organisations engage in the furtherance of the above objects. Do all such other lawful things as may be necessary for the attainment of the above objects or any of them. | £7,602
<strong>ETERNAL COMMUNITY MEDIA</strong> [Charity number: [1165839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165839)]<br>We are completing media training course for people in drug and alcohol recovery. Our volunteers are engaged in writing, scripting, filming and editing a short film. Eternal have been commissioned to work with volunteers from the recovery community to make films about Arson crime, New psychoactive substances and the building of a new local super prison. | £44,840
<strong>2nd Randalstown Congregation of the Presbyterian Church in Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104841](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104841)]<br>Hold services of worship and other religious activities. These, and all that follows, are open to anyone of appropriate age and/or gender to access, without regard to whether they are members of our congregation. Through prayer, support our members, our own Church, other Christian Churches, the community and leaders in society and government. Organise meetings and events that promote our charitable purpose. Participate in the life of the local community. Participate in and support what the Presbyterian Church in Ireland and the supervising Presbytery does. Support other secular and Christian organisations and charities through volunteering, financial gifts and prayer. | £126,791
<strong>Kindness Homeless Street Team Glasgow SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050935](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050935)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:   4.1 The prevention or relief of poverty, through assisting homeless people, individuals who have previously been homeless and people less fortunate, to access the correct benefits and support packages which they are entitled to   4.2 The advancement of health and wellbeing, through identifying and assisting with longer term support provision for people who are homeless or previously homeless and people less fortunate   4.3 The advancement of citizenship through the provision of a structured programme of volunteering which will allow members to assist people who are homeless or previously homeless and people less fortunate   4.4 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, through the provision of practical assistance and advice to people who are homeless or previously homeless and people less fortunate | £174,359
<strong>NIDUS-UK</strong> [Charity number: [1154650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154650)]<br>Most of the income and expenditure has been incurred in running the annual workshops for training of staff and information sharing (about 80%). Most recent income has been devoted to setting up a Nidotherapy Advice and Training Centre through the conversion of an old Victorian school in Cotham, Nottinghamshire, where we will be training volunteers and other staff. | £153,930
<strong>GROBY COMMUNITY LIBRARY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1165994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165994)]<br>THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN GROBY AND THE SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES BY THE PROVISION OF A VOLUNTEER RUN LENDING LIBRARY AND OTHER FACILITIES FOR EDUCATION. | £16,972
<strong>CONNAH'S QUAY UNIT 91 OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [524082](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524082)]<br>A Uniformed Volunteer Youth Organisation for young people aged 10-18 which is based on traditions of the Royal Navy. Cadets and Adult volunteers actively enjoy taking part in water sports, camping and all aspects of Sea Cadet life. | £9,105
