# Financial investment `CV101`

Financial investment is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Charity and VCS support](CV.md) category.

41 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.02% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(coif|charities official investment fund|common investment fund)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 14 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 9 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 1 | 0.00%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 1 | 0.01%
£1m - £10m | 5 | 0.05%
Over £10m | 8 | 0.36%
Total | 40 | 0.02%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 41 | 0.02%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | nan | nan%
Total | 41 | 0.02%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHARITIES AID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [268369](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268369)]<br>The Charities Aid Foundation exists to accelerate progress in society towards a fair and sustainable future for all. We work at the centre of the giving world, to drive greater and more impactful giving through tailored, innovative and strategic services for individual and corporate donors, and to help social purpose organisations to build their resilience and do more of their life-changing work | £1,390,589,000
<strong>SOUTHAMPTON ROW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1079020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079020)]<br>To promote the advancement of education, the relief of poverty, the advancement of religion and such other purposes as are exclusively charitable under the laws of England and Wales. | £146,809,000
<strong>STEWARDSHIP SERVICES (UKET) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [234714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234714)]<br>Stewardship's range of giving account services facilitate tax effective giving to charitable causes in the UK and beyond. Our range of legal and financial support services to Christian charities are detailed in the Trustees' Annual Report. | £117,502,769
<strong>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1091043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091043)]<br>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION IS AN INDEPENDENT PHILANTHROPIC ORGANISATION, WORKING WITH PARTNERS TO TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF POOR AND VULNERABLE CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. USING DATA AND EVIDENCE FOR IMPACT AT SCALE, CIFF'S FOCUS AREAS INCLUDE CHILDREN AND MOTHERS' HEALTH AND NUTRITION, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND WELFARE, AND SMART WAYS TO SLOWDOWN CLIMATE CHANGE. | £66,684,274
<strong>CHARITY ASSETS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146166)]<br>The Charity Asstes Trust is a common investment fund established under section 24 of The Charities Act 1993.  It follows an 'absolute return' investment strategy. This means that the Manager will not endeavour to track or 'outperform' a specific benchmark or stock market index, but instead seek to generate consistent positive returns regardless of the prevailing market conditions. | £17,257,000
<strong>CHARITRAK COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1077125](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077125)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE FUND SHALL BE THE PROVISION OF A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SUMS OF MONEY AND OTHER PROPERTY FROM TIME TO TIME TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF A PARTICIPATING CHARITY; PROVIDED THAT THE PARTICIPATING CHARITIES SHALL BE ENTITLED, SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SCHEME, TO THE CAPITAL AND INCOME OF THE FUND IN SHARES DETERMINED BY REFERENCE TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF THE MONEYS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF EACH PARTICIPATING CHARITY AND TO THE VALUE OF THE FUND AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSFERS. | £14,600,000
<strong>ARMED FORCES COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1093529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093529)]<br>THE PROVISION OF A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SUMS OF MONEY AND OTHER PROPERTY FROM TIME TO TIME TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF A PARTICIPATING CHARITY; PROVIDED THAT THE PARTICIPATING CHARITIES SHALL BE ENTITLED, SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SCHEME, TO THE CAPITAL AND INCOME OF THE FUND IN SHARES DETERMINED BY REFERENCE TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF THE MONEYS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF EACH PARTICIPATING CHARITY AND TO THE VALUE OF THE FUND AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSFERS.  | £13,241,000
<strong>CHARISHARE COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [295634](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295634)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE FUND SHALL BE THE PROVISION OF A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SUMS OF MONEY AND OTHER PROPERTY FROM TIME TO TIME TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF A PARTICIPATING CHARITY; PROVIDED THAT THE PARTICIPATING CHARITIES SHALL BE ENTITLED, SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SCHEME, TO THE CAPITAL AND INCOME OF THE FUND IN SHARES DETERMINED BY REFERENCE TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF THE MONEYS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF EACH PARTICIPATING CHARITY AND TO THE VALUE OF THE FUND AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSFERS. | £12,670,000
<strong>HABERDASHERS' CHARITIES INVESTMENT POOL</strong> [Charity number: [1097691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097691)]<br>A common investment fund managing pooled investments for various charities of which the Haberdashers' Company is trustee | £6,443,000
<strong>CHARIFAITH COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1116156](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116156)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE FUND SHALL BE THE PROVISION OF A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SUMS OF MONEY AND OTHER PROPERTY FROM TIME TO TIME TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF A PARTICIPATING CHARITY, PROVIDED THAT THE PARTICIPATING CHARITIES SHALL BE ENTITLED, SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SCHEME, TO THE CAPITAL AND INCOME OF THE FUND IN SHARES DETERMINED BY REFERENCE TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF THE MONEYS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF EACH PARTICIPATING CHARITY AND TO THE VALUE OF THE FUND AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSFERS. | £5,568,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARINGS TARGETED RETURN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1184795](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184795)]<br>7.1 SUBJECT TO CLAUSE 7.2, THE TRUST'S CHARITABLE OBJECTIVE WILL BE TO FURTHER THE CHARITABLE PURPOSES OF THE CHARITIES THAT DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY HOLD UNITS IN THE TRUST FROM TIME TO TIME.7.2 IF AT ANY TIME THERE ARE NO UNITHOLDERS IN THE TRUST, THE AUTHORISED FUND MANAGER AND DEPOSITARY WILL DETERMINE THE TRUST'S CHARITABLE PURPOSES.7.3 NO CHANGE MAY BE MADE TO THIS DEED WHICH WOULD:7.3.1 CAUSE THE TRUST TO CEASE TO BE A CHARITY; OR7.3.2 AUTHORISE UNITS TO BE ISSUED OR TRANSFERRED TO, OR HELD BY, ANY PERSON OTHER THAN AN ELIGIBLE INVESTOR, WHETHER DIRECTLY OR THROUGH A NOMINEE. 7.4 NO REVOCATION, VARIATION OR AMENDMENT OF THIS DEED WHICH WOULD, OR MIGHT, BE INCONSISTENT WITH THE TRUSTÆS STATUS AS A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND (ESTABLISHED PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 96 TO 99 OF THE CHARITIES ACT) WILL BE VALID WITHOUT THE PRIOR WRITTEN APPROVAL OF THE COURT OR OF THE COMMISSION. | £129,000
<strong>THE IRONMONGERS COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1039950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1039950)]<br>The Charity holds the investments belonging to the charitable trusts of which the Ironmongers' Trust Company is the Trustee. | £2,870,448
<strong>COIF CHARITIES ETHICAL INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1132054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132054)]<br>AN ETHICAL INVESTMENT FUND SPECIFICALLY DESIGNED FOR CHARITIES REQUIRING INVESTMENTS IN COMPANIES WILLING TO ENGAGE IN ETHICAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBLE PRACTICES.  THE FUND IS MANAGED BY CCLA INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LIMITED. | £55,029
<strong>FOUNDERS COMBINED CHARITY INCOME COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1069150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069150)]<br>Providing finance for other charities | £69,347
<strong>STEWARDSHIP SERVICES (UKET) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [234714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234714)]<br>Stewardship's range of giving account services facilitate tax effective giving to charitable causes in the UK and beyond. Our range of legal and financial support services to Christian charities are detailed in the Trustees' Annual Report. | £117,502,769
<strong>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1091043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091043)]<br>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION IS AN INDEPENDENT PHILANTHROPIC ORGANISATION, WORKING WITH PARTNERS TO TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF POOR AND VULNERABLE CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. USING DATA AND EVIDENCE FOR IMPACT AT SCALE, CIFF'S FOCUS AREAS INCLUDE CHILDREN AND MOTHERS' HEALTH AND NUTRITION, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND WELFARE, AND SMART WAYS TO SLOWDOWN CLIMATE CHANGE. | £66,684,274
<strong>SPANISH AND PORTUGUESE JEWS' SYNAGOGUE COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1104449](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104449)]<br>To invest as a common fund for the benefit of the charities associated with the Spanish & Portuguese Jews' Congregation | £351,812
<strong>MRS CAROLINE FRANCIS</strong> [Charity number: [211881](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211881)]<br>In this small village any disbursement is confined to residents and limited by the bank balance and the value of the COIF Shares. It is hoped by the three trustees that any help would be of value, both practically and as a comfort. | £29
<strong>WILLIAM METCALFE'S (HIPSWELL) CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [221754](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221754)]<br>Distribution of interest from COIF | £51
<strong>CHARISHARE COMMON INVESTMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [295634](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295634)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE FUND SHALL BE THE PROVISION OF A COMMON INVESTMENT FUND FOR THE INVESTMENT OF SUMS OF MONEY AND OTHER PROPERTY FROM TIME TO TIME TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF A PARTICIPATING CHARITY; PROVIDED THAT THE PARTICIPATING CHARITIES SHALL BE ENTITLED, SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SCHEME, TO THE CAPITAL AND INCOME OF THE FUND IN SHARES DETERMINED BY REFERENCE TO THE AMOUNT OR VALUE OF THE MONEYS OR PROPERTY TRANSFERRED TO THE FUND BY OR ON BEHALF OF EACH PARTICIPATING CHARITY AND TO THE VALUE OF THE FUND AT THE TIME OF THE TRANSFERS. | £12,670,000
