# Economic and community development `EC`

Economic and community development is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

15,872 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 7.81% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,639 | 6.53%
£10k - £100k | 5,064 | 7.21%
£100k - £250k | 1,828 | 8.20%
£250k - £500k | 1,163 | 10.67%
£500k - £1m | 793 | 11.55%
£1m - £10m | 1,090 | 11.97%
Over £10m | 231 | 10.35%
Total | 14,808 | 7.68%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 10,174 | 5.94%
oscr | 4,719 | 19.04%
ccni | 979 | 13.59%
Total | 15,872 | 7.81%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SAVE THE CHILDREN INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1076822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076822)]<br>Save the Children works in around 120 countries to deliver immediate and lasting change to children's lives. We program across all contexts to ensure all children survive, learn and are protected. Save the Children International and 29 member organisations make up Save the Children Association. Together in 2015 we reached 62 million children directly through our and our partners' work. | £1,103,536,563
<strong>LLOYD'S REGISTER FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1145988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145988)]<br>Lloyd's Register Foundation promotes safety and education. Most of the consolidated income is attributable to the Lloyd's Register Group, a trading group that distributes profit to the Foundation. It is received dividends and not the consolidated trading income that is available to the Foundation. The trading group is a 'Social Investment' that also furthers the Foundation's charitable aims. | £572,056,000
<strong>SWANSEA UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1138342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138342)]<br>The University advances learning and knowledge by teaching and research, and  engages in activities to promote and contribute to cultural, social and economic development within Wales and beyond. | £381,610,000
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £339,366,903
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £339,336,903
<strong>THE SHAW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287785)]<br>Shaw Trust provides services to people who are disabled or otherwise disadvantaged, principally to help them find employment or to develop work and independence skills. | £315,754,000
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £315,754,000
<strong>THE SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [213890](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213890)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE DISTRESS AND TO PROMOTE THE WELFARE OF CHILDREN IN ANY COUNTRY OR COUNTRIES, WITHOUT DIFFERENTIATION ON THE GROUND OF RACE, COLOUR, NATIONALITY, CREED OR SEX TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC CONCERNING THE NATURE, CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF DISTRESS, AND WANT OF WELFARE AS AFORESAID, AND TO CONDUCT AND PROCURE RESEARCH CONCERNING THE SAME AND TO MAKE AVAILABLE THE USEFUL RESULTS THEREOF. | £304,834,000
<strong>The Save the Children Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039570)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is  established are to relieve the distress and hardship, and to promote the welfare of children in any country or countries, place or places, without differentiation on the ground of race, colour, nationality, creed or sex and to educate the public concerning the nature, causes and effects of distress, hardship and want of welfare as aforesaid, and to conduct and procure research concerning the same and to make available the useful results thereof to the public. | £304,834,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Governors of the Donaldson Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC017417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017417)]<br>3.1	The purposes of The Governors of the Donaldson Trust are:  3.1.1	 The advancement of education for children and adults who are neurodivergent, including but not limited, to the provision of special school support, transition services, general education and support in higher education,  3.1.2	 the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, specifically those who are neurodivergent, in all aspects of their lives including independent living skills, health awareness, employment support and transition services, and  3.1.3	 The promotion of equality and diversity for people who are neurodivergent by influencing and impacting services across society in how to embrace neurodiversity and by representing neurodiversity socially, politically and culturally.  | £3,847,502
<strong>ALBION UNITED REFORMED CHURCH CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1128066](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128066)]<br>Religious activities open to the General Public. Community Activities - including Warm Hub, Parent &amp; Tots and other community groups. Hire of building, facilities and garden. General charitable purposes, grants to local &amp; national charities. Music and heritage venue | £145,285
<strong>Fighting With Pride</strong> [Charity number: [SC053933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053933)]<br>1. To relieve need, hardship or distress among lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependents within the united kingdom by: (a) promoting and supporting schemes and other initiatives including rehabilitation, retraining and employment of those who lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. (b) seeking acknowledgement and return where appropriate of medals and other awards removed when they lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. © seeking acknowledgement and remedy by whatever means is judged appropriate of damaged or impaired pension rights, payments and other benefits resulting from when they lost their employment on account of their sexuality prior to 2000. promoting equality, diversity and inclusivity and the elimination of discrimination amongst serving and former members of the armed forces of the crown. the promotion of the efficiency of the armed forces of the crown by encouraging esprit de corps through bringing together lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants. to advance public education regarding lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants with regards to their history, health and physical or mental wellbeing and military service including through public advocacy and the dissemination of research into these topics and through integration and promotion of arts projects. to promote and protect the good physical and mental health of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the armed forces of the crown, former members of the armed forces of the crown and their dependants through: (a) direct liaison with the government and its agencies and by the provision of information, advocacy and discussion. and (b) direct liaison with veterans and other charities and professional organisations through cooperative work, the provision of information, advocacy and discussion, so that their needs and past injustices can be better understood and addressed. to promote social inclusion for the public benefit amongst lgbt+ veterans who were socially excluded when they lost their careers and livelihoods in the past while serving in the armed forces on account of their sexuality, by the provision of service referrals, of support, advocacy and social activities so that they have the opportunity to reintegrate within the broader military family. (for the purpose of this clause, 'socially excluded' means lgbt+ veterans who lost or gave up their careers on account of their sexuality or gender identity while serving in the armed forces and who subsequently faced being ostracised when 'outed' to family, friends and colleagues, who found it difficult to find new employment or who developed mental health difficulties including poor self-esteem and confidence, depression and/or ptsd as a consequence). | 
<strong>The Coalfields Regeneration Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039277](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039277)]<br>The promotion for the public benefit of urban or rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation in the Coalfields areas in England, Wales and Scotland (in this Memorandum and in these Articles of Association 'Coalfield areas' shall mean any areas in England, Wales and Scotland where coal mining is or has in the past been carried out) | £7,425,000
<strong>Wooddean Community Project Organisation </strong> [Charity number: [SC047195](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047195)]<br>4.1. To provide, in the interests of social welfare, facilities for recreational or other leisure time occupation with a view to advancing community development and improving conditions of life for those in Bothwell and surrounding areas.  4.2. To support the provision of recreational facilities and activities in Bothwell and in particular the Wooddean Park area for the benefit of the public at large.  4.3. To create and/or improve community assets to provide opportunities for participation in a wide range of activities for all ages to help improve the long term physical and mental health of the community including but not limited to the creation of high quality outdoor sports areas (with the existing pitch area within Wooddean being retained for sport and physical activity), recreational areas, children's play area, exercise areas. | £50,000
<strong>MEMRA OUTREACH CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1170301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170301)]<br>The prevention or relief of povertyReligious activitiesEconomic/community development/employment | £9,639
<strong>LAMH Recycle Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC038742](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038742)]<br>To relieve poverty primarily among individuals who currently experience or who have previously experienced mental health problems and among other individuals suffering a similar disadvantage in the workplace, through providing training, development and employment opportunities. To relieve those in need by reason of mental ill health or previous mental ill health or other disadvantage. To advance education through the promotion of training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist individuals in finding paid employment. To protect the natural environment fiom further damage caused by the proliferation of landfill sites by:- (i) discouraging the unnecessary depletion of natural resources. and (ii) promoting education in the fields of waste management andlor recycling, and in particular, to collate information and carry out research in thathhose field(s) and disseminate such information and the results of such research, all with a view to encouraging the use of more sustainable waste management practices. To promote, establish, operate andlor support other schemes, in furtherance of charitable purposes which are of a similar nature. | £499,282
<strong>Cloughfin Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102972)]<br>Cloughfin Community Association (CCA) was established in May 1987 by a group of local people to renovate and extend the local primary school which closed its door to children in June 1977. Whilst operating as a school the building had also doubled as a meeting place for local people in this socially deprived area. A committee was formed, grants sought and fund-raising took place to provide a well-equipped centre for the inhabitants of the area. Recently a grant was obtained to make the building more environmentally friendly by installing new double glazed windows, doors and a new oil burner, improving insulation and fitting curtains. Current activities which take place in the centre are a weekly Old Time Dancing Class and a weekly Irish Dancing Class. A collection of books is available for people to borrow and a table-tennis table is available for those interested in the game. With the help of funding a “Grow For Life” project has just been completed which involved the planting of 180 trees and several hundred spring bulbs, learning how to grow, cook and store herbs, vegetables and fruit, recycle vegetation to make compost, save seeds and building nest boxes and bird tables. Fundraising was carried out at Christmas for the Northern Ireland Chest, Heart & Stroke Association. We have just received the news that we are being granted funding to hold a series of health talks through Building the Community Pharmacy Partnership and are currently waiting to hear if we have been successful. CCA is a member of Omagh Forum for Rural Associations and we refer people, when the need arises, in the Cloughfin and surrounding area to the MARA officer who is based at the Forum. | £3,381
<strong>Carntogher Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI104017](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104017)]<br>Carntogher Community Association is a rural Community Association with a very innovative approach to Rural Regeneration. Over the past 20 years the Association has delivered a very wide range of projects that have turned around the fortunes of a dispersed rural community that has been suffering from depopulation and a decline in agricultural employment. The Carntogher area has successfully halted this cycle of decline and is in the process of building a new future and is now helping other communities and individuals to follow its example and fulfil their potential. The Association promotes a wide range of initiatives including, formal and informal training, family support, health & wellbeing, peace and reconciliation, social housing, youth initiatives, Irish-language and cultural initiatives, an arts programme, environmental projects and social economy enterprises such as Siopa An Carn, Carn Translations and Spraoi CIC. The Association has administered well over £3M of funding in the past eight years and has much experience in project delivery and grant administration. Recent capital investment in the group infrastructures has seen the creation of An Carn Conference Centre, An Coire Arts Centre and An Teach Glas – Self Catering Accommodation. In addition to this an opportunity arose in early 2012 to secure the purchase of 130 acres of very valuable ecological habitat directly alongside 80 acres of Drumnaph Woodland which the Association co-managed with the Woodland Trust. As a result of funding from HLF and NIEA the Association was able to purchase the land and is now the only community-owned Nature Reserve in N.Ireland. The Association has undertaken some basic improvement and access works and offered interpretation via a brochure, website and App. Many other communities from across Ireland and further afield are now looking to Carntogher as a model of good practice in building sustainable and prosperous rural communities. | £587,815
<strong>YORKSHIRE MAIN COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [523587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523587)]<br>Social welfare activities, learning opportunities, provision of venue for social / community activities | £11,938
