# International development `EC103`

International development is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

1,149 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.56% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((international|overseas|foreign|humanitarian) (development|aid|relief)|(third|developing|3rd)+ world|famine relief|malaria)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 383 | 0.54%
£10k - £100k | 366 | 0.52%
£100k - £250k | 107 | 0.48%
£250k - £500k | 58 | 0.52%
£500k - £1m | 54 | 0.78%
£1m - £10m | 81 | 0.88%
Over £10m | 44 | 1.96%
Total | 1,093 | 0.56%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,019 | 0.59%
oscr | 87 | 0.35%
ccni | 43 | 0.61%
Total | 1,149 | 0.56%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SAVE THE CHILDREN INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1076822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076822)]<br>Save the Children works in around 120 countries to deliver immediate and lasting change to children's lives. We program across all contexts to ensure all children survive, learn and are protected. Save the Children International and 29 member organisations make up Save the Children Association. Together in 2015 we reached 62 million children directly through our and our partners' work. | £1,103,536,563
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £339,366,903
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £339,336,903
<strong>THE SAVE THE CHILDREN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [213890](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213890)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE DISTRESS AND TO PROMOTE THE WELFARE OF CHILDREN IN ANY COUNTRY OR COUNTRIES, WITHOUT DIFFERENTIATION ON THE GROUND OF RACE, COLOUR, NATIONALITY, CREED OR SEX TO EDUCATE THE PUBLIC CONCERNING THE NATURE, CAUSES AND EFFECTS OF DISTRESS, AND WANT OF WELFARE AS AFORESAID, AND TO CONDUCT AND PROCURE RESEARCH CONCERNING THE SAME AND TO MAKE AVAILABLE THE USEFUL RESULTS THEREOF. | £304,834,000
<strong>The Save the Children Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039570)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is  established are to relieve the distress and hardship, and to promote the welfare of children in any country or countries, place or places, without differentiation on the ground of race, colour, nationality, creed or sex and to educate the public concerning the nature, causes and effects of distress, hardship and want of welfare as aforesaid, and to conduct and procure research concerning the same and to make available the useful results thereof to the public. | £304,834,000
<strong>The British Red Cross Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC037738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037738)]<br>To provide assistance to victims of armed conflicts.  To work for the improvement of health for the prevention of disease and for the prevention and alleviation of human suffering in the British Islands and throughout the world. | £287,100,000
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £287,100,000
<strong>Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind</strong> [Charity number: [SC038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038110)]<br>'	To take or promote measures for the prevention and cure of blindness in the countries and territories specified under article 4 of this our charter and for the education, rehabilitation, training and employment of the blind in those countries and territories and '	To foster collaboration among organisations concerned with blindness and its prevention and to promote and where appropriate, to participate in national, regional and international activities likely to prevent blindness and benefit the blind in any part of the world. | £285,809,000
<strong>ROYAL COMMONWEALTH SOCIETY FOR THE BLIND</strong> [Charity number: [207544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207544)]<br>Seventy five per cent of blindness in the world is either avoidable or treatable. Sightsavers works with partners in developing countries to eliminate avoidable blindness and promote equality of opportunity for disabled people. Our work alleviates poverty among poor and marginalised communities and thus helps to realise the internationally accepted Millenium Development Goals. | £285,595,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £275,575,689


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BEYOND POVERTY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1211928](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1211928)]<br>Beyond Poverty Foundation is a non-profit charity committed to alleviating and preventing poverty in England and Bangladesh. Our work is structured into two primary arms: humanitarian aid and infrastructure development, and poverty prevention through community support and empowerment. | 
<strong>THE CENTRAL BRITISH FUND FOR WORLD JEWISH RELIEF</strong> [Charity number: [290767](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-290767)]<br>World Jewish Relief is the UK Jewish community's international development and humanitarian agency. We tackle Jewish poverty and reach beyond our community. We create opportunities for those out of work to become self-reliant, we bring dignity to the elderly, assistance to refugees and we respond to international disasters. | £15,456,679
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF MAIDSTONE CHARITY APPEAL TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1054777](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1054777)]<br>Providing relief to the poor and needy, Donations to small local charities, International aid, and supporting local youth. | £12,342
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF NORTHAMPTON BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [261475](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261475)]<br>Sponsoring and managing events, arranging collections and receiving donations for fund raising.   Making donations in cash or kind, activities for disadvantaged young and old people, educational events for young people of all abilities, educational links with overseas students, helping to sponsor international aid projects where needed.  Managing 4 'in-house' trusts. | £11,437
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF CHESTER TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1113813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113813)]<br>For the relief of the poor and needy or such other charitable purposes as the club shall in duly constituted meeting from time to time direct.To make grants, donations to individuals, Rotary and other organisations (incl schools, charities, etc. and international relief) and provide human resources (e.g. staff/volunteers) for events including fundraising and community and vocational services. | £1,879
<strong>Uganda Aid - Person To Person</strong> [Charity number: [SC036939](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036939)]<br>The relief of poverty for the people of Uganda by providing humanitarian aid in the form of financial assistance and the provision of basic amenities, food, clothing and medical supplies.  To advance the education of the people of Uganda by providing financial assistance, facilities and equipment.  To provide or assist in the provision of facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation for the people of Uganda. | £28,840
<strong>FULFILLING FUTURES</strong> [Charity number: [1182539](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182539)]<br>To further develop long term educational prospects for the communities of St John Leonard's School and Archbishop Kiwanuka School, both situated in the Mpigi District, Western Uganda. Primarily this will be through supporting pupils that come from severely disadvantaged backgrounds to attend both primary and secondary school and by supporting community based projects. | £9,489
<strong>OMAID FOUNDATION (OF.UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1094069](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094069)]<br>The objective of this charity are: (a) The relief of poverty, sickness, distress & suffering in any part of the world including (Physical disability or affliction and sickness caused by natural disasters, particularly earthquake pestilence, war or civil disturbance) (b) The advancement of education of the public (c) The supply and transport of humanitarian aid | 
<strong>The Tumaini Fund (Scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC044613](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044613)]<br>The Trustees shall hold and apply the sum of £1 paid by us to them, and such other funds and assets as may from time to time be comprised in the Trust Property, in trust for the following purposes and with the aim of following the teachings of Jesus Christ and the Biblical imperative to care for widows and orphans. Its objective is: ( a) The prevention or relief of poverty among Aids widows and orphans living in the diocese of Kagera in North West Tanzania by providing or assisting in the provision of education, training, healthcare projects and all the necessary support designed to enable individuals to generate a sustainable income and be self-sufficient. ( b) The advancement of education of Aids orphans in the Diocese of Kagera in North West Tanzania by way of providing funding for school fees, school uniforms and materials. ( c) The advancement of health and the saving of lives of Aids widows and orphans in the diocese of Kagera in North West Tanzania by providing funding to pay for the medical treatment and to provide education and materials to prevent the spread of endemic local diseases, for example, malaria.  | £134,835
<strong>Stonehaven and District Lions Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC049456](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049456)]<br>3.1 The Objects of the Club are such purposes as are exclusively charitable in Scotland, including in particular: 3.1.1 the advancement of citizenship by: 3.1.1.1 promoting the principles of good citizenship. 3.1.1.2 encouraging members to take an active interest in the civic, cultural, social and moral welfare of the community. 3.1.1.3 providing a forum for the open discussion of all matters of public interest. provided that partisan politics and sectarian religion shall not be debated by members. 3.1.1.4 encouraging service-minded people to serve their community without personal reward and encouraging the promotion of high ethical standards in commerce, industry, professions, public works and private endeavours. 3.1.1.5 supporting youth to develop their skills, capacities and capabilities to enable them to participate in society as mature and responsible individuals. 3.1.2 promoting the Voluntary Sector for the public benefit by associating with local authorities in a common effort to advance education and provide facilities in the interests of social welfare for recreation or other leisure time occupation to improve the conditions of life of people in local, national and international communities. 3.1.3 promoting volunteering. 3.1.4 the relief of poverty and the relief of those in need in particular by providing humanitarian aid and disaster relief. 3.1.5 the advancement of health or the saving of lives by preventing avoidable blindness, assisting disabled people to lead independent lives or helping to prevent or manage health issues. 3.1.6 promoting for the benefit of the public the conservation protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment. and/or 3.1.7 promoting community participation in healthy recreation. 3.2 Nothing in this constitution shall authorise an application of the property of the Club for the purposes which are not charitable in accordance with Section 7(2) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, and section 2 of the Charities Act 2006 (England and Wales). | £31,823
