# Rural and farming areas `EC105`

Rural and farming areas is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

4,050 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.99% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(rural|arable|agricultur(e|al)|farming|country ?side|agrarian|young farmers)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,354 | 1.90%
£10k - £100k | 1,479 | 2.11%
£100k - £250k | 415 | 1.88%
£250k - £500k | 230 | 2.13%
£500k - £1m | 142 | 2.12%
£1m - £10m | 200 | 2.22%
Over £10m | 34 | 1.56%
Total | 3,854 | 2.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,774 | 1.62%
oscr | 950 | 3.84%
ccni | 326 | 4.53%
Total | 4,050 | 1.99%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CAMFED INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1029161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029161)]<br>Camfed tackles poverty and inequality by supporting girls to go to school and succeed, and empowering young women to step up as leaders of change. Camfed invests in girls and women in the poorest rural communities in sub-Saharan Africa, where girls face acute disadvantage. and where their empowerment is now transforming communities. | £84,638,714
<strong>JOHN INNES CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [223852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223852)]<br>An independent, international Centre of excellence in plant science and microbiology.  The Centre's mission is:- To generate knowledge of plants and microbes through innovative research- To apply it's knowledge of nature's diversity to benefit agriculture, the environment, human health and well-being- To train scientists for the future- To engage with policy makers and the public | £74,414,677
<strong>The James Hutton Institute</strong> [Charity number: [SC041796](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041796)]<br>to conduct and promote research in biological, social, economic and environmental sciences so as to deliver science, knowledge, innovation and services that contribute to advances in agriculture and other land uses. resource and environmental management. social, economic and environmental sustainability. food, energy and water security. education. and health and well-being in Scotland and internationally. | £70,510,000
<strong>AGA KHAN FOUNDATION (UNITED KINGDOM)</strong> [Charity number: [266518](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-266518)]<br>The AKF(UK) is an affiliate of the International Aga Khan Foundation and part of the Aga Khan Development Network (AKDN).The principal activity of the Charity is to promote and provide for the advancement of education, health, rural development, the environment and support to civil society organisations for the public benefit. | £63,584,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £61,271,000
<strong>YHA (ENGLAND AND WALES)</strong> [Charity number: [306122](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306122)]<br>'TO HELP ALL, ESPECIALLY YOUNG PEOPLE OF LIMITED MEANS, TO A GREATER KNOWLEDGE, LOVE AND CARE OF THE COUNTRYSIDE, AND APPRECIATION OF THE CULTUAL VALUES OF TOWNS AND CITIES, PARTICULARLY BY PROVIDING YOUTH HOSTELS OR OTHER ACCOMMODATION FOR THEM IN THEIR TRAVELS, AND THUS TO PROMOTE THEIR HEALTH, RECREATION AND EDUCATION.' | £61,186,310
<strong>HARPER ADAMS UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1147717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147717)]<br>Harper Adams University delivers higher education in support of the agricultural, agricultural engineering, food science and technology, environmental science, veterinary science and land-based sectors. | £56,346,000
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of National Museums Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011130)]<br>Section2 (1) of the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1985 states:  So far as practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall (a) care for, preserve and add to the objects in their collections, (b) secure that the objects are exhibited to and interpreted for the public, (c) secure that the objects are available to persons seeking to inspect them in connection with study or research, (d) generally promote the public's awareness, appreciation and understanding of matters agricultural, archaeological, architectural, artistic, cultural, environmental, historical, industrial, military, scientific and social both by means of the Board's collections and by such other means. including collaboration with other institutions, as they consider appropriate, and (e) provide education, instruction and advice and carry out research. | £39,537,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000
<strong>The Snooks Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052180)]<br>5.3 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and  (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 5.3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 5.3.2 The advancement of education. 5.3.3 The advancement of religion. 5.3.4 The advancement of health (including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering). 5.3.5 The saving of lives. 5.3.6 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 5.3.7 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 5.3.8 The advancement of public participation in sport (and 'sport' means sport which involves physical skill and exertion). 5.3.9 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are :- 5.3.9.1 primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. or 5.3.9.2 available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 5.3.10 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.3.11 The promotion of religious or racial harmony. 5.3.12 The promotion of equality and diversity. 5.3.13 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 5.3.14 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). 5.3.15 The advancement of animal welfare. 5.3.16 The relief of unemployment. 5.3.17 The advancement of philosophical belief. 5.3.18 The promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces. | £31,371,100


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>RIVER AFRICA (RURAL INVESTMENT IN VOCATIONAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATION)</strong> [Charity number: [1140087](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140087)]<br>OUR MISSION IS TO REDUCE THE EXTREME SUFFERING CAUSED BY CHRONIC POVERTY, ECONOMIC INACTIVITY, MARGINALISATION AND HIV/AIDS. THIS WILL BE ACHIEVED BY ADVOCATING THE HOLISTIC PROVISION AND FREE ACCESS TO QUALITY RURAL HEALTHCARE IN HARD-TO-REACH RURAL AREAS OF ZIMBABWE, FOR WOMEN OF A CHILD BEARING AGE, MOTHERS AND INFANTS TO THE AGE OF 5. | £14,000
<strong>The Armagh Rhymers Educational & Cultural Organisation</strong> [Charity number: [NI102997](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102997)]<br>Products and services We do this by providing workshops for the children, who then join in to present a play to an audience (other children, leaders, councillors, teachers families, etc.). We utilise traditional arts to bring children together from different communities and backgrounds especially in rural schools and at community events, emphasising the similarities to other cultures around the world. WORKSHOPS The Armagh Rhymers conduct workshops on the traditional art of mumming. These entail discussions on the history of costumes and mask making, the poetry and music of Irish artists, and the folk-style theatre aspect of character presentation. These interactive workshops can be conducted with children or adults, and adapted accordingly. They begin with a talk on the history of mumming, costumes and mask making and the similarities of this tradition in other cultures around the world. The Rhymers then work with the children on their character parts for the play, encouraging them to enhance these parts with their own interpretations. PERFORMANCES These performances are based plays currently in our repertoire Allthese plays are interactive participative performances, usually accompanied by preceding workshops to enable participation. We also work with nursery and Keystage 1 children. Included for this group are action songs, action games, clapping songs and acting games and unique songs dealing with science and astronomy. Our ‘Myth and Mask’ performance based on The Mummers Play, is designed for older peoples groups and incorporates favourite songs from the past, encouraging audience participation. Performance Poetry: These performances (Myth & Mask, Poetry Ramble) are primarily conducted for adult audiences and/or children over 16. They highlight the writings of Irish poets and songwriters, combining the works in a flowing rhythmic stream. | £121,800
<strong>SKYAIM CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1184059](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184059)]<br>supply clean water , by providing water pumps.The Prevention Or Relief Of Poverty ,By supplying food packages, Education by giving school fees also provide uniform and school meals for deprive children of rural areas Help with medical fees such as having Diabetic check up , pregnancy  check up for women or any other medical issue also provide wheelchairs to people with disabilities.  | £1,500
<strong>Tamlaght Women's Institute</strong> [Charity number: [NI104559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104559)]<br>The current Tamlaght Women’s Institute (WI) is set up in the rural townland of Tamlaght, though membership is gathered from surrounding townlands. The most significant work of the Tamlaght WI is the construction and upkeep of the local Women’s Institute hall. The group meets monthly and offers classes of cookery and craft skills and lectures of different subjects such as Hymn writing and social issues. Other activites such as sewing, brooch making, flower arranging and card making also take place and outings to historical or significant locations take place throughout the year for our members. | £3,447
<strong>Belvoir Education & Sports Trust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [1131442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131442)]<br>Inspiring children to lead healthy, active lives through sport and countryside education. AIMSTo promote the love of sport, develop appreciation for the British countryside and learn the value of community so that children and adults make healthy, informed life choices.Championing equity, diversity, and inclusion so that all have access to a wide range of sports and countryside learning | £434,076
<strong>Arran Geopark</strong> [Charity number: [SC052706](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052706)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to advance, for the benefit of the public, environmental protection, education, heritage, community development (particularly sustainable rural regeneration) and recreational activity by operating the Arran Geopark covering the area of outstanding geodiversity in and around Arran.  In so doing, the organisation shall have the following aims for the Geopark:-   a)  to conserve and enhance the geological, geomorphological and other heritage of the area.  b)  to promote the Geopark as an area for scientific study and research in the various disciplines of the Earth Sciences.  c)  to promote the understanding and enjoyment (including enjoyment in the form of recreation) of the special qualities of the area by the public.  d)  to promote sustainable economic and social development of the area's communities in harmony with its natural resources.  e)  to manage the Geopark within the framework established by the Global Geoparks Network Charter under the umbrella of UNESCO. | £107,255
<strong>South Harris Agricultural Society SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052432](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052432)]<br>The advancement of education, the advancement of citizenship or community development and the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by providing education in and promotion of agriculture, horticulture and craft skills through all age community involvement. | £19,732
<strong>The Cuthbert-MacLean Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC046507](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046507)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 the advancement of education For example, supporting individuals or groups to take part in educational trips, such as visiting important historical sites or galleries. Another example would be to provide books and/or equipment for special needs schools or groups. 4.2 the advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency or charities). For example, giving financial support grants to local groups needing to send trustees on training courses or conferences. 4.3 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. For example, financial support to local art groups or heritage trusts. 4.4 the advancement of religion. For example, financial support to interfaith projects or to supporting religious outreach programmes or support of volunteer groups supporting sick or inform travelling on pilgrimage. 4.5 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). For example, financial support to care homes needing refurbishment or help in purchasing resident equipment such as shared leisure and entertainment resources and shared medical or therapeutic goods. All examples used in Section 4 are not exhaustive. | £1,245
<strong>AFRICAN VILLAGE SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1164318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164318)]<br>Our aim is to help improve the quality of life of both adults and children in rural Uganda. Working as a humanitarian, community based organisation, we have delivered a number of sustainable community projects including building a school hostel for girls, a large community centre and supporting women's groups and educating students through sponsors, along with livelihood projects for young people. | £24,310
<strong>FELINDRE VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [524458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524458)]<br>The charity is responsible for managing the village hall to provide a place for recreation, educational or/and social purposes for the local communities of Felindre, Beguildy and the surrounding rural hamlets and villages.  It provides a valuable resource to the local community suporting Teme Valley YFC, Felindre W.I, Beguildy Community Council, Keep Fit Club, Art club and short mat bowls club. | £28,615
