# Planning and architecture `EC104`

Planning and architecture is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

181 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.09% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(planning (and|&) architecture|architecture (and|&) planning|planning system|standards of (planning|architecture))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 123 | 0.17%
£10k - £100k | 42 | 0.06%
£100k - £250k | 4 | 0.02%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 175 | 0.09%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 140 | 0.08%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 41 | 0.17%
Total | 181 | 0.09%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Moray Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC017546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017546)]<br>3.1.1 to advance the education of the public in the furtherance of the arts, antiquities, archaeology, geology, botany, history and natural history, especially as connected with the County of Moray (the “Area”) and the collection, preservation and arrangement of objects connected therewith to make them so far as practical available to the public to view or study and in particular and without prejudice to the foregoing generality to promote, conserve, maintain and protect for the benefit of the public, a Museum and so far as practical to maintain the Museum Collection within its existing historic purpose built accommodation in Elgin.   3.1.2 to maintain, safeguard and conserve the amenities and environment of the Area inter alia by: (i) stimulating public interest in, and care for, the beauty, history and character of the Area.  (ii) encouraging the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historical interest. and (iii) encouraging high standards of architecture and town planning in the Area. and 3.1.3 to advance community development by working with other charities and community organisations in the Area, thereby promoting individual and group engagement. | £1,664,762
<strong>TOWN AND COUNTRY PLANNING ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [214348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214348)]<br>Our activities work towards improving the art of town and country planning and in reaching our objectives: securing decent homes for everyone in a good human-scale environment combining the best features of town and country; empowering people and communities to influence decisions that affect them; and improving the planning system in accordance with the principles of sustainable development | £1,098,287
<strong>LEEDS CIVIC TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1014362](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014362)]<br>Leeds Civic Trust is an independent, non-political, voluntary organisation. We promote the improvement of Leeds. Our principal aims are to encourage: High standards of architecture and planning; Conservation and enhancement of the city's heritage; Improvement of public amenities and the quality of life. | £739,393
<strong>Planning Aid For Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC021337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021337)]<br>(i) To advance the education of the public by informing members of the public how the town and country planning system works and in particular how planning applications and appeals are made and determined and how local and strategic plans are prepared. (ii) To provide, to individuals and local groups who are unable to afford a planning consultant, free and professional advice, independent of local authorities, on particular town and country planning problems, issues or decisions. (iii) To explain to individuals or local groups the technical, administrative and legal matters associated with planning and environmental problems, issues or decisions and to assist individuals and local groups to participate constructively in the planning process. (iv) To help individuals and local groups to gain knowledge and confidence to pursue effectively their own participation in town and country planning and related issues. | £506,606
<strong>THE EXETER CANAL AND QUAY TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [284163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284163)]<br>The preservation of land, buildings around the Canal and Quay Basin The promotion and encouragement of high standards of architecture The promotion of educational and cultural activities and support of community participation in any form of healthy recreation, including waterborne sportsThe education of the public about the historic trade passing through Canal and Quay. | £352,947
<strong>Scottish Civic Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC012569](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012569)]<br>To promote and encourage the following objects: (a)  Attractive healthy and stimulating conditions of life and work (b)  High standards of architecture building and town and country planning (c)  The preservation of buildings and features of artistic merit or historic interest (d)  The protection of the beauties and amenities of the countryside (e) the elimination and prevention of ugliness whether arising from bad design, neglect or any other cause | £319,458
<strong>THE ST JAMES'S CONSERVATION TRUST LTD.</strong> [Charity number: [1079166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079166)]<br>In the charity's area of benefit - to promote high standards of planning and architecture; to secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of features of historic or public interest; to maintain the character of the area, with its social fabric, collection of ancient shops and gentlemen's clubs; to educate the public in the geography, history and architecture of the area. | £107,104
<strong>University Design Forum</strong> [Charity number: [1166552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166552)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit, the advancement of design in architecture in the Higher Education sector, including but not limited by: (I) The promotion of high standards of architecture and design in the higher education built environment; and(II) Raising awareness and appreciation of the importance of high standards of higher education architecture and design. | £105,767
<strong>Cultura Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC050330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050330)]<br>The Trust is established for the public benefit for the following purposes: 3.1 to promote the high standards of planning and architecture in or affecting the area of benefit*. 3.2 to educate the public in the geography, history, natural history and architecture of the area of benefit*. and 3.3 to secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of buildings (including any building as defined in section 290(1) of the Town and Country Planning Act 1971) and other features of historic architectural or public interest in the area of benefit*. *and the 'area of benefit' shall mean the area comprising the counties of Cleveland, Cumbria, Durham, Northumberland, North Yorkshire and Tyne and Wear ('the Northern Regions') and Scotland and elsewhere as the Directors may from time to time decide provided that the Directors shall regard the Northern Regions as their primary concern.  | £105,409
<strong>DORKING SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1107459](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107459)]<br>to promote and encourage high standards of architecture and town planning, public interest in and care for the beauty, history and character of Dorking and district and preserve, develop and improve features of general public or historic intrest | £103,800


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Lanark & District Civic Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC005328](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005328)]<br>Objects The objects of the society shall be to promote and encourage the following objects by charitable means, but not otherwise.  a)	To stimulate public interest in and care for the beauty, history and character of the area of the town and its surroundings. b)	To encourage the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historic interest. c)	To encourage high standards of architecture and town planning in Lanark and District d)	To persue these ends by means of meetings, exhibitions, lectures, conferences and publicity, and the promotion of schemes of a charitable nature. | £12
<strong>GOOLE CIVIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1181280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181280)]<br>Within the Parish of Goole  Goole Civic Sociey CIO will - i.Promote high standards of planning and architecture in or affecting the area of benefitii. Educate the public in the geography, history, natural history and architecture of Goole. iii. Secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of the environment and sites of features of historic or public interest. | £2,713
<strong>THE WOODBRIDGE AND MELTON SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1117073](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117073)]<br>A civic society which monitors planning applications, promotes high standards of planning and architecture and stimulates interest in the history and traditions of the town. | £6,747
<strong>The Moray Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC017546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017546)]<br>3.1.1 to advance the education of the public in the furtherance of the arts, antiquities, archaeology, geology, botany, history and natural history, especially as connected with the County of Moray (the “Area”) and the collection, preservation and arrangement of objects connected therewith to make them so far as practical available to the public to view or study and in particular and without prejudice to the foregoing generality to promote, conserve, maintain and protect for the benefit of the public, a Museum and so far as practical to maintain the Museum Collection within its existing historic purpose built accommodation in Elgin.   3.1.2 to maintain, safeguard and conserve the amenities and environment of the Area inter alia by: (i) stimulating public interest in, and care for, the beauty, history and character of the Area.  (ii) encouraging the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historical interest. and (iii) encouraging high standards of architecture and town planning in the Area. and 3.1.3 to advance community development by working with other charities and community organisations in the Area, thereby promoting individual and group engagement. | £1,664,762
<strong>Edinburgh Architectural Association SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050008)]<br>3.1The Charitable Purposes of the Chapter ('the Charitable Purposes') are.   1. to advance the cause of good Architecture by uniting members of the profession in order to provide and promote the highest standard of Architectural service. 2. to advance art, architecture, culture, education and heritage by delivering lectures, exhibitions, awards and other events and by creating or supporting publications of any kind in any media. 3. to promote environmental protection and enhancement by encouraging high standards of Architecture throughout the Territory.  4. to promote public interest by representing the Architectural profession in relation to key architectural, planning or development matters, which directly or indirectly affect the society, at a local, regional, national or international level. and 5. to uphold, advance and support the objects of the Royal Incorporation of Architects in Scotland.  3.2 The Chapter's territorial area shall comprise the City of Edinburgh and West Lothian, Mid Lothian, East Lothian, Berwickshire, Roxburghshire, Selkirkshire, Peebles-shire and Southern Fife (that part to the border of Clackmannanshire and Kinross-shire, and to the west of a line drawn from West Wemyss to Auchmuirbridge Bridge), or such other area as determined by RIAS from time to time ('the Territory'). | £19,573
<strong>EAST BERGHOLT SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [266062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-266062)]<br>The East Bergholt Society is the local amenity society for the village. Its aims are to promote and maintain high standards of planning and architecture, to promote interest in the local environment and history, both natural and built and maintain its continued wellbeing by the preservation and protection of features of historic or public interest and the encouragenent of sustainable deve[opment. | 
<strong>Biggar & District Civic Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC023120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023120)]<br>The objects of the society shall be to promote and encourage the following objects, by charitable means but not otherwise: a) To stimulate public interest in, and care for, the beauty, history and character of the area of the town and its surroundings. b) To encourage the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historic interest.  c)To encourage high standards of architecture and town planning in Biggar and the surrounding district. d) To pursue these ends by means of meetings, exhibitions, lectures, publications, competitions, conferences and publicity, and the promotion of other schemes of a charitable nature. | £475
<strong>THE MARGATE CIVIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [257884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257884)]<br>To encourage high standards of architecture and planning in Margate and environs, by holding regular meetings and talks, commenting on planning applications and taking a full part in local consultations and activities. | £4,217
<strong>Berwickshire Civic Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC004171](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004171)]<br>(a) To stimulate public interest in, and care for, the beauty, history and character of the County of Berwickshire. (b) To encourage the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historic interest. (c) To encourage high standards of architecture and town and country planning in Berwickshire and comment on plans or decisions of Local Authorities. (d) To pursue these ends by means of meetings, exhibitions, lectures, publications, conferences and publicity, and the promote of schemes of a charitable nature. | £1,468
<strong>THE STREATHAM SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [283297](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283297)]<br>We are a local civic society.Our aims are:(i)   To promote high standards of planning and architecture in or affecting Streatham.(ii)  To educate the public in the geography, history, natural history and architecture of Streatham (iii) To secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of features of historic or public interest in or affecting Streatham. | £8,871
