# Community development `EC101`

Community development is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

6,315 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(community (development|activities)|(community|civic) trust|civic society|village amenities)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,803 | 2.54%
£10k - £100k | 2,079 | 2.96%
£100k - £250k | 821 | 3.68%
£250k - £500k | 475 | 4.36%
£500k - £1m | 283 | 4.12%
£1m - £10m | 289 | 3.17%
Over £10m | 57 | 2.55%
Total | 5,807 | 3.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,459 | 1.44%
ccni | 327 | 4.54%
oscr | 3,529 | 14.24%
Total | 6,315 | 3.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>University Of Aberdeen</strong> [Charity number: [SC013683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013683)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of health.  The advance ment of civic responsibility and community development.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £269,532,000
<strong>Mercy Corps Europe</strong> [Charity number: [SC030289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030289)]<br>The objects of the Company are:- (a) the relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of health. (c) the advancement of community development. (d) the saving of lives. (e) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and (f) the advancement of environmental protection | £173,818,407
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £151,659,000
<strong>Richmond Fellowship Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC021621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021621)]<br>The objects of the Society are the relief of those who are vulnerable and in need of support, care, advice or other assistance due to reasons of their vulnerability. The Society will or may do this through: - The advancement of health and well being. - The advancement of education. - The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the objective of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. - The relief of those in need. This may be by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. - The prevention or relief of povert | £117,729,000
<strong>Edinburgh Merchant Company Education Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC009747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009747)]<br>The Education Board?s Charitable Purposes are: (a) the advancement of education, particularly the education and advancement of children and young people. (b) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science.  (c) the advancement of public participation in sport.  (d) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and (e) the advancement of citizenship or community development. | £84,994,162
<strong>Enable Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC009024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009024)]<br>. The Company’s objects are to primarily promote the relief of those in need and the welfare of children and adults who have a learning disability including the meeting of their needs, and the development of their capabilities. to enable and encourage people who have a learning disability to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives. and secondly to work with individuals, including those who have a learning disability, their families, carers, including older carers, and other organisations to achieve these aims. In furtherance thereof, but not otherwise, the Company shall seek:  The promotion of equality and diversity and the promotion and advancement of human rights, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments, through campaigning on issues affecting people across Scotland who have learning disabilities, their families and carers and to promote and support local campaigns concerning same.  The advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting mutual help, information and support amongst people who have learning disabilities, their relatives and friends. To further advance health through the commissioning and facilitation of research, and implementation of findings in practice.  The advancement of citizenship or community development through promoting cooperation and understanding between people who have learning disabilities and their relatives, and those providing services to them. To further advance citizenship and community development by creating, facilitating and supporting forums for developing networks, accessing employment opportunities, peer support and information sharing.  The relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting, providing and encouraging the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people who have a disability, their families and carers.  The advancement of education through encouraging research into the causes and management of learning disabilities and to disseminate the useful results of such research.  The foregoing objects shall be construed subject to the proviso that the objects of the Company are charitable. | £68,751,054
<strong>Clanmil Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103840)]<br>Clanmil Housing provides high quality, affordable homes for rent throughout Northern Ireland and helps facilitate home ownership for people who cannot afford to purchase a home outright. By providing efficient, value for money maintenance and a responsive repair service we ensure that our tenants have high quality, comfortable homes they can be proud of. We work closely with local communities and their representatives to ensure that that the homes we build really meet their needs. Our homes are well designed with energy efficiency features. We work with our tenants to develop innovative solutions to problems and deliver community development programmes that address their needs and interests. We work in partnership with local authorities, social enterprises, residents groups and other agencies on: training and access to jobs; social, sport and wellbeing programmes; reducing anti-social behaviour; helping our tenants manage their personal finances. As with many in Northern Ireland, we believe that people who wish to live in mixed neighbourhoods should have that opportunity and we are committed to continuing to deliver shared neighbourhoods. Looking to the future, we believe we can make a real difference for our tenants by focusing our efforts in four key areas: 1. Customer: We will understand our customers better and focus everything we do on providing the best possible homes and services. 2. Organisation: We will develop our people and the organisation to ensure we are best placed to deliver great homes and services that matter. 3. Growth: We will build more homes for people who need them. 4. Communication: We will communicate better with our stakeholders so that they know what decisions we have taken and why. | £56,889,968
<strong>Nesta</strong> [Charity number: [SC042833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042833)]<br>The objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: 2.1 To advance education, and in particular the study of innovation, by the promotion of research and the publication of the useful results thereof, in: 2.1.1 Science and technology. 2.1.2 The arts. 2.1.3 The efficiency of public services. 2.1.4 The Voluntary sector and social enterprise. and 2.1.5 Industry and commerce. 2.2 To advance: 2.2.1 Science and technology 2.2.2 The arts 2.2.3 The efficiency of public services 2.2.4 The voluntary sector 2.2.5 Industry and commerce and social enterprise which (a) Relieves poverty (b) Relieves unemployment (c) Advances health (d) Advances environmental protection or improvement and sustainable development (e) Advances citizenship or community development through or by encouraging and supporting innovation. 'The voluntary sector' means charities and voluntary organisations. Charities are organisations, which are established for exclusively charitable purposes in accordance with the law of England and Wales. Voluntary organisations are independent organisations, which are established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and which are not permitted by their constitution to make a profit for private distribution. Voluntary organisations do not include local government or other statutory authorities. 'Sustainable development' means 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. 2.3 To advance any other purpose which is recognised as exclusively charitable under the laws of England and Wales and Scotland. | £55,306,000
<strong>The Suttie Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC053301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053301)]<br>The Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund for such purposes ('Purposes') only as are within the meaning of charitable purposes in terms of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 as amended or superseded from time to time which are also regarded as charitable purposes in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts from time to time in force. DECLARING that the Purposes may include all or any of the following purposes:-  3.1 the prevention or relief of poverty. 3.2 the advancement of education. 3.3 the advancement of health. 3.4 the saving of lives. 3.5 the advancement of citizenship or community development. 3.6 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 3.7 the advancement of public participation in sport. 3.8 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 3.9 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 3.10 the advancement of animal welfare. and 3.11 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £50,000,020
<strong>Postcode Justice Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043779)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:  3.1 the advancement of education.  3.2 the advancement of health.  3.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.5 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.6 the promotion of equality and diversity.  | £49,303,056


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Freuchie & Area Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042148](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042148)]<br>We direct the Trustees to hold such sums of money, stocks and shares and other assets as may in the future from time to time be paid or conveyed to the Trustees by us or other persons and the investments and property from time to time representing the same (all hereinafter referred to as 'the Trust Fund') as capital and to disburse from the Revenue income generated therefrom grants and donations to the beneficiaries as described in the Trust Conditions for the following purposes (hereinafter 'the Purposes'):  (a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) the advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement: (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (o) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £324
<strong>Stewartry Agricultural Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC010703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010703)]<br>The Company's charitable purposes (the expression 'charitable purpose' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts) are (and shall not be altered without the prior consent of the Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator):  The advancement of education. The advancement of citizenship or community development. The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. The advancement of animal welfare. | £50,782
<strong>Cross Ethnic</strong> [Charity number: [SC041922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041922)]<br>1. Name and objectives The organisation, named Glasgow Integrated Community Empowerment and International Support (GICES) based in Glasgow, is established to address the growing need to support Ethnic Minorities and host community in Glasgow as well as to provide International Support to those in need, and our objectives as mentioned below aim at processing integration and active citizenship for all. GICE will work in partnership with all concerned stakeholders within charitable objectives:  The objectives of GICEIS are: • To promote and advance the contribution of multicultural Ethnic Minority communities in Glasgow through promoting social inclusion and harmony among the diverse communities as well as to encourage contribution of wider society to support our initiatives to work with people in need and to provide humanitarian assistance outside of the UK.  • To advance citizenship through assisting in removing barriers (e.g language, discrimination and exclusion) of EM in Glasgow and in places where GICEIS will run its activities oversees, as well as through empowering an active role locally promoting and supporting equality at all levels. In addition, we will promote social cohesion and active participation in civic society, as well as building direct links between local disadvantaged communities and policy makers addressing areas of support in relation to Health, Housing and education and overall welfare of these communities.  • To relief poverty through empowering members of the diverse communities (youth, women, student etc.) in Glasgow and in places where GICEIS will run its activities in their engagement through community initiatives empowering a voice for these groups and assisting in helping them to develop relevant skills in this respect as well as to provide humanitarian assistance.  GICEIS will deploy co-operation and partnership in the achievement of these objectives or any of them.  | £15,501
<strong>Ardoyne Youth Enterprises</strong> [Charity number: [NI105047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105047)]<br>We are a strategic platform for 30+ local youth provider organisations to share information and resources and to develop long-term solutions to the problems affecting young people and youth development locally. We employ a Director and Administrator and four part-time Outreach and Detached youth workers (through DSD Neighbourhood Renewal) who target at-risk and marginalised young people through bespoke interventions and personal development programmes. We deliver community transport services to North Belfast through our 17-seater disabled access minibus which operate on a community transport permit (section 10b issued by DOE). We deliver cross-community youth governance programmes in seven areas of Crumlin Ardoyne Neighbourhood Renewal Partnership funded by OFMDFM under the North Belfast Strategic Good Relations programme. We facilitate and drive strategic youth development plans locally. In summary, our organisation offers a range of support services to beneficiaries in the Ardoyne, Cliftonville, Crumlin and wider North Belfast area including: • Strategic co-ordination – development of solutions and interventions to local needs • Training and skills enhancement • Community Transport – provision of cost-effective community transport • Development advice and assistance • Youth governance – design and management of the Time to Change projects • Organisational management and support AYPF has been integral to the fabric of the community development infrastructure in North Belfast over the last decade. We play a significant role in the delivery of Neighbourhood Renewal for the Crumlin Ardoyne Neighbourhood Partnership and have led various cross-community youth initiatives and contracts with the Community Empowerment Partnerships (OFMDFM). | £288,373
<strong>BULLDOGS BOXING & COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES</strong> [Charity number: [1156591](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156591)]<br>The Bulldogs creates Social Impact through the power of Boxing and non-contact training as a means of embedding a theory of change into individuals lifestylesWe aim to achieve this by: Creating changes in a persons behaviour, activity or situation, embedding changes in perspective and perception of themselves and of others by increasing motivation and lifestyle decision making. | £325,409
<strong>Edinburgh Social Enterprise Network Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC044030](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044030)]<br>The objects of the Society shall be to advance community development, promote the voluntary sector and the  effectiveness/efficiency of charities, and advance education, by 2.1 providing opportunities for social enterprises to learn how to run their businesses better (including - but without limitation - by facilitating action learning and the exchange of information) 2.2 providing opportunities for social enterprises to grow their businesses (including - but without limitation - initiatives that identify trading opportunities and facilitate joint trading opportunities) 2.3 promoting goods and services provided by social enterprises. and on the basis that the business of the Society will be carried on for the benefit of the community within Edinburgh. | £103,418
<strong>Yorkshire Artspace Society</strong> [Charity number: [1049370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049370)]<br>Arts/cultureEconomic/Community development/EmploymentEducation/Training | £563,306
<strong>Go Forth and Clyde</strong> [Charity number: [SC050623](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050623)]<br>The company's objects are: 4.1 To advance the education of the public about inland waterways and in particular the Lowland Canals and to encourage and promote the use of the canals for the benefit of the public. 4.2 To stimulate public interest and appreciation of the history, structure and beauty of the Lowland Canals with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom such facilities are primarily intended. 4.3 To protect and preserve or assist in the protection and preservation of Scotland's inland waterways, in particular the Lowland Canals. 4.4 To promote the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment in the area around the Lowland Canals. 4.5 To promote citizenship to advance and support personal and community development where boats and canals are used as the attraction to bring people together to develop skills and confidence to progress as individuals and regenerate their community for the benefit of everyone. 4.6 To offer opportunities to individuals and communities to develop using boating and canals for those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £158,666
<strong>Glenkens Community Shop</strong> [Charity number: [SC043944](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043944)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 The advancement of citizenship and community development within the Glenkens, which is the villages as set out on the map in Appendix 1 4.2 The prevention or relief of poverty of inhabitants of the Glenkens. The purposes will be delivered through running a local charity shop and other fund raising activities, where funds raised will be distributed to local projects and individuals who are in financial need.  | £22,156
<strong>Kilmarnock Town Centre Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [SC047064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047064)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 Promote and work towards the advancement of citizenship or community development for the benefit of Kilmarnock and its environs 4.2 To advance arts, heritage and culture 4.3 Promote the provision of recreational facilities and organise recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. | £21,619
