# Social enterprise `EC106`

Social enterprise is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

424 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.21% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(social (enterprises?|entrepreneurs?|entrepreneurship|investment|trading)+|community business(es)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 62 | 0.09%
£10k - £100k | 79 | 0.11%
£100k - £250k | 51 | 0.23%
£250k - £500k | 64 | 0.59%
£500k - £1m | 42 | 0.63%
£1m - £10m | 97 | 1.08%
Over £10m | 21 | 0.97%
Total | 416 | 0.22%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 264 | 0.15%
oscr | 98 | 0.40%
ccni | 62 | 0.86%
Total | 424 | 0.21%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THERA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1090163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090163)]<br>The Thera Group of companies supports people with a learning disability. It employs staff who support people in their own home, in their local community and for short breaks.  Thera also provides financial advocacy and quality assurance services; as well as developing and running social enterprises. | £91,231,681
<strong>SOCIAL INVESTMENT BUSINESS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1117185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117185)]<br>SIB FOUNDATION INVESTS IN COMMUNITY BASED ORGANISATIONS RUNNING ENTERPRISE ACTIVITIES.  WE PROVIDE FINANCE SUCH AS LOANS, GRANTS AND EQUITIES AS WELL AS SUPPORT AND ADVICE. | £69,549,000
<strong>Clanmil Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103840)]<br>Clanmil Housing provides high quality, affordable homes for rent throughout Northern Ireland and helps facilitate home ownership for people who cannot afford to purchase a home outright. By providing efficient, value for money maintenance and a responsive repair service we ensure that our tenants have high quality, comfortable homes they can be proud of. We work closely with local communities and their representatives to ensure that that the homes we build really meet their needs. Our homes are well designed with energy efficiency features. We work with our tenants to develop innovative solutions to problems and deliver community development programmes that address their needs and interests. We work in partnership with local authorities, social enterprises, residents groups and other agencies on: training and access to jobs; social, sport and wellbeing programmes; reducing anti-social behaviour; helping our tenants manage their personal finances. As with many in Northern Ireland, we believe that people who wish to live in mixed neighbourhoods should have that opportunity and we are committed to continuing to deliver shared neighbourhoods. Looking to the future, we believe we can make a real difference for our tenants by focusing our efforts in four key areas: 1. Customer: We will understand our customers better and focus everything we do on providing the best possible homes and services. 2. Organisation: We will develop our people and the organisation to ensure we are best placed to deliver great homes and services that matter. 3. Growth: We will build more homes for people who need them. 4. Communication: We will communicate better with our stakeholders so that they know what decisions we have taken and why. | £53,249,805
<strong>Nesta</strong> [Charity number: [SC042833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042833)]<br>The objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: 2.1 To advance education, and in particular the study of innovation, by the promotion of research and the publication of the useful results thereof, in: 2.1.1 Science and technology. 2.1.2 The arts. 2.1.3 The efficiency of public services. 2.1.4 The Voluntary sector and social enterprise. and 2.1.5 Industry and commerce. 2.2 To advance: 2.2.1 Science and technology 2.2.2 The arts 2.2.3 The efficiency of public services 2.2.4 The voluntary sector 2.2.5 Industry and commerce and social enterprise which (a) Relieves poverty (b) Relieves unemployment (c) Advances health (d) Advances environmental protection or improvement and sustainable development (e) Advances citizenship or community development through or by encouraging and supporting innovation. 'The voluntary sector' means charities and voluntary organisations. Charities are organisations, which are established for exclusively charitable purposes in accordance with the law of England and Wales. Voluntary organisations are independent organisations, which are established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and which are not permitted by their constitution to make a profit for private distribution. Voluntary organisations do not include local government or other statutory authorities. 'Sustainable development' means 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. 2.3 To advance any other purpose which is recognised as exclusively charitable under the laws of England and Wales and Scotland. | £52,412,000
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £43,060,110
<strong>WALES COUNCIL FOR VOLUNTARY ACTION</strong> [Charity number: [218093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-218093)]<br>WCVA is the national membership organisation for voluntary organisations in Wales.  WCVA promotes  volunteering, good governance, sustainability and engagement by providing information, training, advice and support to charities, voluntary and community groups & social enterprises. WCVA manages several grant & loan schemes. | £33,223,612
<strong>THE LONDON EARLY YEARS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [299686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299686)]<br>The London Early Years Foundation (LEYF) is one of the UK's largest charitable social enterprises with a social purpose of 'changing the world one child at a time'. We achieve our social purpose by giving London's children aged 0-5 years the best start in life through the highest quality Early Years Education and Care, especially those who otherwise may not be able to access or afford it. | £32,080,481
<strong>SOMERSET HOUSE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1063640](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1063640)]<br>Somerset House Trust was established in 1997 to enhance the education of the public by the provision of a centre for the arts and to maintain the buildings for the benefit of the local and international community as an example of English national heritage. At its heart lies a creative community of innovative businesses and social enterprises which contribute to the vibrancy and energy of the site. | £25,510,000
<strong>THE VIRGIN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [297540](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-297540)]<br>Virgin Unite was established by Richard Branson and staff across the Virgin Group to deliver entrepreneurial approaches to social and environmental issues. Virgin Unite works with all the Virgin companies around the world in partnership with social entrepreneurs to build sustainable solutions to some of thoughest challenges facing the world today. | £21,494,000
<strong>VODAFONE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1193984](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193984)]<br>Vodafone Foundation is at the centre of a network of 24 global & local social investment programmes. Through this unique network, we are able to think & act locally & respond to the needs of the communities in which Vodafone operates. Globally, we harness the power of mobile technology to deliver long-term sustainable programmes that drive transformational change & support disaster response. | £19,589,579


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Clanmil Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103840)]<br>Clanmil Housing provides high quality, affordable homes for rent throughout Northern Ireland and helps facilitate home ownership for people who cannot afford to purchase a home outright. By providing efficient, value for money maintenance and a responsive repair service we ensure that our tenants have high quality, comfortable homes they can be proud of. We work closely with local communities and their representatives to ensure that that the homes we build really meet their needs. Our homes are well designed with energy efficiency features. We work with our tenants to develop innovative solutions to problems and deliver community development programmes that address their needs and interests. We work in partnership with local authorities, social enterprises, residents groups and other agencies on: training and access to jobs; social, sport and wellbeing programmes; reducing anti-social behaviour; helping our tenants manage their personal finances. As with many in Northern Ireland, we believe that people who wish to live in mixed neighbourhoods should have that opportunity and we are committed to continuing to deliver shared neighbourhoods. Looking to the future, we believe we can make a real difference for our tenants by focusing our efforts in four key areas: 1. Customer: We will understand our customers better and focus everything we do on providing the best possible homes and services. 2. Organisation: We will develop our people and the organisation to ensure we are best placed to deliver great homes and services that matter. 3. Growth: We will build more homes for people who need them. 4. Communication: We will communicate better with our stakeholders so that they know what decisions we have taken and why. | £53,249,805
<strong>Clackmannanshire Third Sector Interface Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC042543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042543)]<br>The Company's purposes are- (a) To act as Strategic Enablers in the development of the Third Sector in Clackmannanshire, acting as the principal conduit for this type of work between the Scottish Government, Local Authority and any other body which seeks to contribute strategically, financially and/or operationally to the development of the Third Sector in Clackmannanshire. (b) To advance community development including (i) rural or urban regeneration, and (ii) the promotion of civic responsibility, social enterprise, volunteering, the voluntary sector and providing more effectiveness and efficiency to charities and Third Sector organisations in Clackmannanshire. (c) To advance such other purposes as are charitable in the law of Scotland for the time being in force as the company from time to time determines. (d) To co-operate with any other society or organisation for the furtherance of the above purposes and to bring together statutory, voluntary and business organisations in joint effort to further or promote the above purposes.  | £358,998
<strong>The Furniture Lodge</strong> [Charity number: [SC045138](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045138)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 1.The advancement of environmental protection by establishing a community social enterprise which will raise awareness of and provide local solutions to waste reduction, recycling and re-use issues. This enterprise will seek to reduce the amount of reusable items currently being sent to landfill while promoting an awareness of waste reduction, recycling and re-use issues. It also aims to educate the public as to the benefits of donating or buying reusable items which would otherwise end up in landfill 2. The relief of those in need by providing work and training opportunities for disadvantaged members of the local community, alongside paid employment, volunteering and retraining opportunities.  | £23,207
<strong>REACH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1080638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080638)]<br>The furtherance of the Christian faith through the running of local churches in and around the East Midlands and the Mediterranean. This includes social enterprise projects, such as Community Grocers, to serve our local communities. | £992,791
<strong>ESTA 414</strong> [Charity number: [1127974](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127974)]<br>To help the lowest common denominator forgotten, neglected and without hope with medical aid, training programs and mentoring. From London estates to child soldiers in Sierra Leone, rescue orphans and those persecuted in Armenia, Burma, Timor Leste, Sudan and Uganda. Including medical and humanitarian projects, rehabilitation and advocacy for global human rights atrocities, plus social enterprise. | £611
<strong>Wigtown Players</strong> [Charity number: [SC023101](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023101)]<br>The purposes of the Society is to create through the medium of entertainment, funds for the Old Folks Treat. | £4,768
<strong>Omagh Enterprise Company Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101885)]<br>The organisation provides a range of industrial and office space for rent on favourable terms to individuals, businesses and social entrepreneurs. The recent establishment of an Innovation Growth Centre, providing accommodation for up to 20 high-tech businesses, has enhanced the space available and provided dedicated facilities for start-up and social enterprise businesses. In addition, a number of conference, meeting and training rooms are available for hire to businesses and community and voluntary organisations. The availability of accommodation is complemented by the provision of reception services, secretarial support, free Wi-fi, hot desks and free car parking and access to a small business loan fund that add considerable benefits to the users and the wider community. The organisation also provides a range of business start-up, business growth, social economy and innovation programmes. These include: the Exploring Enterprise programme, the Social Entrepreneurship programme, the Regional Start programme, Steps to Work programme, Advance, Harnessing Creativity programme, Innovation Enterprise programme and the Tradelinks programme. The programmes delivered are supplemented by business clinics, informal advice and mentoring, and provide opportunities to network with other business owners and social entrepreneurs. The organisation is also an accredited European Computer Driving Licence Centre. The organisation works in close partnership with a number of key stakeholders. They include: Omagh District Council, Social Enterprise NI, Young Enterprise, Princes Trust, Unltd, Omagh District Training Consortium, South West College, Enterprising West, Invest NI, Department of Social Development, Omagh Chamber of Commerce, Omagh Neighbourhood Renewal Partnership, Young Enterprise, Business in the Community, Social Investment Fund and the Social Enterprise Hubs. | £1,227,229
<strong>Community Woodlands Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC038374](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038374)]<br>The company's objects are: 1) The advancement of community development through the provision of support and assistance to voluntary organisations and social enterprises engaged in land and woodland management, by encouraging the involvement of individuals in such organisations, and by representing and promoting such organisations and raising public awareness of the benefits they provide. 2) The relief of poverty through the provision of skills training. 3) The advancement of education by promoting, commissioning and delivering learning and research relating to community development or land and woodland management. 4) The advancement of environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable development by encouraging and supporting best practice for land and woodland management in Scotland for the benefit of the natural heritage and the general public. | £100,593
<strong>Tiphereth Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC017483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017483)]<br>The objects of the Trust are:- (a) to provide care to and advance the education, training and development of beneficiaries in accordance with the Steiner Principles and the principle of Community Life by. (i) the establishment and maintenance of a community or communities that includes shared community households, the provision of tenancies, residence households and through community building of day services, social enterprises or other social, educational or working facilities and. (ii) the provision, or procurement, of education, training, leisure, activity and work, within, or outside, the community or communities for beneficiaries.  (b) to promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions in such proportions and manner as the Trustees shall think fit. | £3,859,462
<strong>Lamhan</strong> [Charity number: [SC053612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053612)]<br>The Company is set up a social enterprise with the following Objects, to: 5.1 advance the education, by providing a wide range of learning opportunities which will improve employability and confidence through the development of skills, providing pathways to qualifications and by offering access to training, volunteering and employment activities. In particular, 5.1.1 empower people by teaching them to sew, make & repair their own clothes through workshops, patterns, books and sewing kits. 5.1.1 to offer Fashion and Textiles Heritage apprenticeship training to young people who traditionally face barriers. 5.2 advance arts and culture through the promotion, revival and presentation of traditional tailoring, kiltmaking & dressmaking and the provision of creative opportunities to ensure that these skills do not continue to decline and are not lost to history. 5.3 advance environmental protection or improvement by the promotion of environmental sustainability, through repair, reuse, reclamation, recycling and use of surplus and leftover materials to minimise waste to produce fashion or historical clothing. Particularly, to address & make people think about textile waste by using dead stock & leftover fabrics from (mainly) Scottish fabric suppliers. | 
