# Urban areas `EC108`

Urban areas is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) category.

846 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.42% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(inner-? ?city|urban)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 241 | 0.33%
£10k - £100k | 236 | 0.34%
£100k - £250k | 114 | 0.54%
£250k - £500k | 77 | 0.76%
£500k - £1m | 57 | 0.89%
£1m - £10m | 57 | 0.66%
Over £10m | 9 | 0.43%
Total | 791 | 0.41%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 417 | 0.24%
oscr | 382 | 1.55%
ccni | 47 | 0.65%
Total | 846 | 0.42%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £174,925,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £42,880,025
<strong>The Snooks Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052180)]<br>5.3 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and  (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 5.3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 5.3.2 The advancement of education. 5.3.3 The advancement of religion. 5.3.4 The advancement of health (including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering). 5.3.5 The saving of lives. 5.3.6 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 5.3.7 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 5.3.8 The advancement of public participation in sport (and 'sport' means sport which involves physical skill and exertion). 5.3.9 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are :- 5.3.9.1 primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. or 5.3.9.2 available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 5.3.10 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.3.11 The promotion of religious or racial harmony. 5.3.12 The promotion of equality and diversity. 5.3.13 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 5.3.14 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). 5.3.15 The advancement of animal welfare. 5.3.16 The relief of unemployment. 5.3.17 The advancement of philosophical belief. 5.3.18 The promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces. | £31,371,100
<strong>Woven Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103066](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103066)]<br>Habinteg plans, develops and manages social housing schemes in urban and rural areas throughout Northern Ireland and works with a number of partner organisations in providing supported accommodation. The Association has a voluntary Board and 80+ members of staff based at offices in Holywood, Derry/Londonderry and residentially across the region. The Association’s directly managed housing stock provides a vast range of housing solutions, from large and medium sized suburban developments to inner city apartments to individual rural cottages. Partnership projects include sensitively designed housing with care schemes, temporary accommodation for people who are homeless, and housing initiatives for people with additional physical, mental and/or social needs. Managed housing stock is in excess of 1800 units at more than 90 locations and 18 partnership projects. | £19,668,699
<strong>Clyde Gateway URC</strong> [Charity number: [SC039644](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039644)]<br>The promotion for the public benefit of urban regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation | £19,114,329
<strong>Turquoise Mountain Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037343](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037343)]<br>(1) The objects of the Company are to promote education and urban and rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation primarily, but not exclusively, in the Republic of Afghanistan by all or any of the following means.- (a) the relief of poverty. (b) the relief of unemployment (c) the advancement of education, training or retraining particularly among unemployed people, and providing unemployed people with work experience. (d) the creation of training and employment opportunities by the provision of teaching facilities, workspace, buildings and/or land for use on favourable terms. (e) the preservation of buildings or sites of historical or architectural importance. (f) the protection or conservation of the environment. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) to promote such other purposes, objects or institutions charitable in law and in such proportions and manner as the Directors shall think fit and are related to or in support of the foregoing objects. | £16,957,296
<strong>THE GAUDIO FAMILY FOUNDATION (UK) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1157301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1157301)]<br>The Foundation aims to provide grants towards: relieving poverty, especially in urban areas; advancing and improving education, particularly for disadvantaged women and children in impoverished areas; and various other charitable endeavours at the discretion of the trustees. | £12,877,695
<strong>The Conservation Volunteers</strong> [Charity number: [SC039302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039302)]<br>1.To conserve the environment for the benefit of the public, including: 1.1. The conservation and maintenance of the character and amenity of rural, urban and inner city areas. 1.2. The maintenance and management of nature reserves and other sites of biological, scientific or environmental importance. 2.To educate the public in the principles and practice of conservation through volunteering and community support. 3. To advance the education of the public through the provision of training. In particular:- 3.1. In practical conservation skills. 3.2. Basic Skills. 3.3. Skills to improve employment prospects. 4. To develop the capacity and skills, primarily through volunteer opportunities, of the public at large andlor those who by reason of youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or economic and social circumstances, have need of such facilities with the object of improving their conditions of life. | £10,599,000
<strong>GROUNDWORK NORTH EAST</strong> [Charity number: [1017706](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017706)]<br>To promote for the public benefit, urban or rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation within the Area.To advance public education in environmental mattersTo promote the conservation, protections and improvement of physical and natural environment within the Area | £9,652,214


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Glenmuckloch Energy Park</strong> [Charity number: [SC045035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045035)]<br>The charitable purposes of the Company shall be to do all such things, and to fund or contribute to the funding of such activities and causes, as shall further or fulfil one or more of the following charitable purposes, and will provide public benefit, in the Upper Nithsdale area of the Dumfries and Galloway Region of Scotland:- 2.1 the prevention or relief of poverty. 2.2 the advancement of education. 2.3 the advancement of religion. 2.4 the advancement of health including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering. 2.5 the saving of lives. 2.6 the advancement of citizenship or community development including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civil responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 2.7 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 2.8 the advancement of public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 2.9 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended and where either (a) those persons  have need of the facilities or activities by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage or (b) such facilities are available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large.  2.10 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  2.11 the promotion of religious or racial harmony. 2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity. 2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 2.14 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). and 2.15 the advancement of animal welfare. | £100,000
<strong>New Cumnock Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC048761](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048761)]<br>PURPOSES  4.2. The Company's main purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable  development. The Company's purposes are:  4.2.1. to provide or advance the accessibility of recreational, facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.  4.2.2. advancement of citizenship or Community development, including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility and volunteering.  4.2.3. To advance the provisions for educational opportunities in the Community.  4.2.4. To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community.  4.2.5. to prevent or relieve poverty in the Community.  4.2.6. to advance health in the Community.   4.2.7. the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science in the Community.  4.2.8. the advancement of public participation in sport in the Community.  4.2.9. the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation in the Community.  4.2.10. the promotion of equality and diversity in the Community.  4.2.11. the relief of those in need in the Community by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £642,544
<strong>The Galaxy Foundation SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC051337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051337)]<br>5.3	The SCIO's purposes are:  5.3.1	to provide or advance the accessibility of recreational, facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.  5.3.2	advancement of citizenship or Community development, including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility and volunteering. 5.3.3	to advance the provisions for educational opportunities in the Community.  5.3.4	to advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community. 5.3.5	to prevent or relieve poverty in the Community. 5.3.6	to advance health in the Community. 5.3.7	the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science in the Community.  5.3.8	the advancement of public participation in sport in the Community. 5.3.9	the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation in the Community. 5.3.10	the promotion of equality and diversity in the Community. and 5.3.11	the relief of those in need in the Community by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £109,207
<strong>RE GENERATION (URBAN & RURAL) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1150718](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150718)]<br>Is a social enterprise providing employment opportunities, advice, guidance and support in partnership with others.  Promoting urban and rural regeneration we develop the capacity and skills of the socially and economically disadvantaged in community in such a way that they are better able to identify, and help meet, their needs and to participate more fully in society. | 
<strong>ALLY Foyle</strong> [Charity number: [NI102595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102595)]<br>ALLY Foyle (Active living in later years) is a network of older people’s groups in the Derry City Council area and was formed in August 2004. Membership to the network is made up of different groups - community & voluntary groups, active ageing clubs, day care centres, residential & sheltered homes and organisations providing services to older people. These clubs and groups are all independently managed and we co-ordinate and liase between the groups. The groups hail from a variety of social, religious and socio-economic backgrounds. They are located in both urban and rural areas of the Foyle. We provide tutors and facilitators to deliver social, recreational, physical and creative programmes and activities to older people to increase their mental health and well-being. | £41,039
<strong>Greater Pollok Enterprise Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC029119](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029119)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit the community of Greater Pollok, which comprises the G53 and G46 postcode districts of Glasgow (“the Community”) with the following objects:  (1) The advancement of community development (including the advancement of urban regeneration and the promotion of the voluntary sector) within the Community and the relief of unemployment among the residents of the Community, and in particular (but without limitation) through (a) the provision of accommodation, and management, mentoring and other support, for businesses with the aim of securing employment and/or training opportunities for unemployed people who are residents of the Community (b) the provision of accommodation, and management, mentoring and other support, within the Community for social enterprises and (c) providing links to colleges, training providers, schools and other establishments who may assist with the development of skills which would enhance the pr (2) The relief of poverty among the residents of the Community, and in particular (but without limitation) through providing childcare facilities (for children of pre-school age and, in the form of out-of-school care, for children of school age) which enable the parents or guardians of such children who would otherwise have difficulty in meeting childcare costs to access and/or maintain themselves in paid employment. and (3) To advance education, in particular among pre-school children and (in the form of out-of-school educational activities) among children of school age. But only to the extent that the above purposes are consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development. For the purposes of paragraph 4(1)(b), an organisation shall only be treated as a social enterprise if (i) it has an asset lock, whether by way of provision in its constitution or by way of a statutory asset lock, and is non-profit distributing, or (ii) it is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a body which has such an asset lock.”  | £479,023
<strong>Short Strand Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [NI100273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100273)]<br>Our main strategic aims are to ensure that local residents have access to suitable employment and training opportunities and to provide support for social and community development in the area. We are committed to community renewal - developing consistent communities which are able and committed to improving the quality of life in their areas. In terms of economic renewal our aim is to create economic activity and connect to the wider urban economy. We strive to improve social conditions for residents through better co-ordinated public services and through our community safety group create safer environment for all residents. Through our physical renewal strategy we help to create visually attractive, safe, sustainable environment. We lobby for and on behalf of socially affordable housing. Through this collaboration of work Short Strand has a more cohesive community infrastructure, involving community groups, statutory organisations, voluntary groups, schools and churches. It is now a community that is fully informed in all that is happening locally and continues to have a low level of crime and anti social activity. | £45,649
<strong>Johnstonebridge Centre and Community Development Trust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC043738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043738)]<br>The Company has been formed to benefit the community of Johnstone Parish as defined by the postcode units DG11 1HD, DG11 1HW, DG11 1HE, DG11 1HS, DG11 1HN, DG11 1HP, DG11 1HF, DG11 1HR, DG11 1HL, DG11 1HH, DG11 1HG, DG11 1HJ, DG11 1HQ, DG11 1ES, DG11 1EP, DG11 1EG, DG11 1EU, DG11 1ET, DG11 1ER, DG11 1EX, DG11 1EY, DG11 1EQ, DG11 1TJ, DG11 1TH, DG11 1BG, DG11 2SL, DG11 2RT, DG11 2RS, DG11 2RU, DG10 9PS, DG10 9PR, DG10 9PX, DG10 9PP, DG10 9PT, DG10 9NF, DG10 9NX, DG10 9NE, DG10 9ND. ('the Community'), with the Purposes listed in the sub-clauses hereto ('the Purposes'), to be exercised following the principles of sustainable development (where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs), namely:  To manage community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general.  To provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.   To advance community development, including urban or rural regeneration within the Community.  To advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history.  To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community. | £69,662
<strong>Fountainbridge Canalside Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC035342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC035342)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit principally those living within the Fountainbridge area in Edinburgh and the areas closely adjacent to the Union Canal which comprise “the Community”. The relevant map and postcodes for the area of benefit are set out in the Appendix to these M&A’s. The objects of the company shall be:   (1)	The advancement of community development (including the advancement of urban regeneration principally within the Community).  (2)	The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage  (3)	The advancement of citizenship.  (4)	The advancement of environmental protection or improvement.  (5)	The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   But only to the extent that the above purposes are consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development.  | £149,469
<strong>URBAN EDGE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1171829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171829)]<br>The Foundation organises an annual Celebrity Golf Event to raise money for a chosen charity. | £425
