# Unemployment `EC107`

Unemployment is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](/data/ukcat/EC) category.

4,172 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(jobs?|employment|unemploy(ed|ment))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,050 | 1.27%
£10k - £100k | 1,133 | 1.75%
£100k - £250k | 561 | 2.90%
£250k - £500k | 386 | 4.26%
£500k - £1m | 273 | 4.74%
£1m - £10m | 412 | 5.18%
Over £10m | 73 | 3.94%
Total | 3,888 | 2.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 3,037 | 1.80%
oscr | 803 | 3.16%
ccni | 332 | 4.67%
Total | 4,172 | 2.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £263,402,000
<strong>THE SHAW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287785)]<br>Shaw Trust provides services to people who are disabled or otherwise disadvantaged, principally to help them find employment or to develop work and independence skills. | £263,402,000
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £239,014,000
<strong>Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind</strong> [Charity number: [SC038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038110)]<br>'	To take or promote measures for the prevention and cure of blindness in the countries and territories specified under article 4 of this our charter and for the education, rehabilitation, training and employment of the blind in those countries and territories and '	To foster collaboration among organisations concerned with blindness and its prevention and to promote and where appropriate, to participate in national, regional and international activities likely to prevent blindness and benefit the blind in any part of the world. | £236,775,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £201,362,000
<strong>Construction Industry Training Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC044875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044875)]<br>For the purpose of making better provision for the training of persons for employment in any activities of the construction industry | £148,542,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £123,430,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £95,633,000
<strong>Royal National Institute of Blind People</strong> [Charity number: [SC039316](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039316)]<br>The objects for which the Institute is established and incorporated are to promote the better education, training, employment and welfare of Blind and partially sighted people, and generally to watch over and protect the interests of Blind and partially sighted people and to prevent blindness. | £85,709,000
<strong>The Prince's Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041198)]<br>(i) To promote by all charitable means the mental, spiritual, moral and physical development and improvement of young people and to provide opportunities for them to develop their full capacities and enable them to become responsible members of society so that their conditions of life may be improved, to include: (a) providing facilities for young people for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare.  (b) advancing the education of young people by the provision, encouragement and promotion of education, instruction or training in professions, vocations, industries, crafts, trades or the skills needed in employment.  (c) relieving poverty amongst young people through the provision of assistance (including financial assistance) and encouragement whilst their education is being advanced as aforesaid or whilst they are in the process of establishing new businesses or preparing for entering upon or engaging in a profession, trade, craft or service.  (d) arranging periods of voluntary work in the community. and  (e) for the benefit of the public encouraging and assisting young people in their understanding of and practical action in support of the natural and built environment.  (ii) To promote and conduct research into social conditions affecting young people and the mental, spiritual, moral and physical needs of young people and to publish the useful results of such research.  (iii) To carry out any such approved objects (as defined by Regulation 33 of the Landfill Tax Regulations 1996 or any amendment thereto) as are exclusively charitable and to encourage young people particularly to do so.  (iv) To support such charity or charities or such charitable purpose or purposes as the Council shall in its absolute discretion think fit  | £80,643,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Arbuthnott Community Enterprises Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC020682](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC020682)]<br>(1) To educate the public in the geography, history, natural history and architecture of the Parish of Arbuthnott (the operating area) (2) To secure the preservation, protection, development and improvement of features of historic or public interest in the operating are. (3) To promote and or provide training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents of the Operating Area in obtaining paid employment (4) To promote, establish and operate other schemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area | 
<strong>Grocers Company of Paisley SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052205](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052205)]<br>1.1 The charitable purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are: -  1.1.1 The relief of those in need, including existing alimentars, by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision of grant giving activities and shall support financially and otherwise (but not limited to) education, training, professional development to good causes, individuals in need, organisations in the Paisley and Renfrewshire areas. 1.1.2 To advance education through the provision of training activities, materials and information through a variety of mediums through a range of project, initiatives and activities which stimulate employment, self-employment and skills amongst people resident within said areas.   1.1.3 The prevention or relief of poverty through support for the provision of skills and advancing the employability prospects of residents of said areas in particular those who find it difficult to obtain employment.    1.1.4 To co-operate with other charitable organisations in Paisley and Renfrewshire and to support financially and otherwise, other charitable appeals and projects for the benefit of the people of Paisley and Renfrewshire. | 
<strong>UNCLE PAUL'S CHILLI FARM</strong> [Charity number: [1191859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191859)]<br>We provide an alternative environment where people with SEND or social disadvantage can learn new skills knowledge, and experience for sustainable employment and independent living. We offer a large range of activities at the farm, kitchen, cafe and collaborate with education partners and community organisations to ensure the successful  progress of our beneficiaries. | £194,186
<strong>CVS Falkirk & District</strong> [Charity number: [SC000312](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC000312)]<br>3.  The company's objects are: 3.1 To promote any charitable purposes.  For the benefit of all the inhabitants of the Falkirk Council Area and in particular the advancement of education, the furtherance of health and the relief of poverty, distress and sickness. 3.2 To provide information (including producing publications) and practical support to voluntary organisations and community groups in order to assist them in achieving their own objectives and in doing so, to promote best practice. 3.3  To develop and support appropriate networks in order to ensure the voluntary and community sectors engagement in local planning and partnerships in areas such as but not exclusively volunteering, health, social work, housing, education, employment, environment and leisure. 3.4 To provide information and practical support to individuals who wish to volunteer and to volunteer engaging organisations and in doing so, to promote best practice. 3.5 To promote the work of the local voluntary sector to local, national and UK government and to other statutory agencies or appropriate bodies as necessary and appropriate. | £1,210,763
<strong>WHICKHAM AND DISTRICT U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1080264](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080264)]<br>Our group provides for people who are no longer in full time employment. Members share knowledge and information about: camera use, camcorder, genealogy, travel, regional stories, architecture, bowls, ambling,walking keep fit, discussion, arts and crafts, scrabble,theatre, whist, and any new ventures which promote learning We also use our skills to support local projects. | £4,300
<strong>Lisburn Enterprise Organisation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101192)]<br>Enterprise Awareness A key feature of our work is the promotion of an enterprise culture and awareness raising activities to highlight self-employment and entrepreneurship as positive and rewarding career choices. • Design and delivery of student entrepreneurship & employability workshops • Exhibiting at careers exhibitions and Job Fairs • Outreach work in the local college • Sponsorship of student & business awards • Working with prisoners in HMP Maghaberry • Facilitating access to support services by migrant workers Business Start Up • Exploring Enterprise – accredited training & mentoring programme for the long term unemployed and economically inactive to support their re-engagement with the labour market • INI Regional Start Initiative - providing individuals who want to start a new business with advice and the capability to produce their own business plan • COMET Boot Camp - group learning and one-to-one implementation support for young entrepreneurs aged between 16-35 years • Graduate into Business Programme – a package of mentoring and technical support to aspiring and existing graduate entrepreneurs Business Development • Tradelinks Programme - supports businesses to grow their customer base beyond NI and build on exports to the Republic of Ireland • Promotion of the Invest in Health, Profit in Business campaign encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in the health of their employees • Collaboration with other business support organisations to promote access by local business owners to a range of initiatives so as they get the necessary support to grow their business. Business Support • Assist clients in applying for grants and loans. • Provision of light industrial/office type business accommodation on favourable terms including 30 day licences, all-inclusive licence fee, onsite business advice and other facilities. • Provision of meeting rooms & conference facilities on an hourly basis for flexible use by local businesses • Virtual office services | £637,190
<strong>YOUTH ASPIRE CONNECT</strong> [Charity number: [1199354](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199354)]<br>THE ADVANCEMENT OF LIFE OF YOUNG PEOPLE THROUGH:THE PROVISION OF EDUCATIONAL AND EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT AND CAREER MENTORSHIPTHE PROMOTION OF THE STUDY OF STEM SUBJECTS (SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, ENGINEERING AND MATHEMATICS)THE FURTHERANCE OF ANY OTHER CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES (ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES) FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM FIT. | 
<strong>JOAN BENNETT'S EXHIBITION ENDOWMENT</strong> [Charity number: [306609](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306609)]<br>Small grants to individuals usually of school-leaving age in Plymouth to help in their education or to help in their training for a job. | £209
<strong>ORPINGTON U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1076544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076544)]<br>Orpington U3A is a self-help, self-managed lifelong learning co-operative for older people no longer in full-time employment. Members share learning experiences in a wide range of interest groups to pursue learning not for qualification but for fun. | £12,780
<strong>Strathard Community Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC036450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036450)]<br>To preserve, restore and improve the environment in and around the Strathard Community Council area - 'the Operating Area' - outlined in red on the map attached to this memorandum of Association through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but Subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use. To provide within the Operation Area facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation available to the public at large with a view to improving their conditions of life.  To advance education among the residents of the Operating Area, particularly among young people and the unemployed.  To promote and/or provide training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents of the Operating Area in obtaining paid employment.  To promote trade and industry for the benefit of the general public.  To promote, establish and operate other schemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area, with clearance from IR Charities or its successor body. | £79,177
