# Economic development `EC102`

Economic development is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](/data/ukcat/EC) category.

1,440 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.71% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((economic|regional|local|business|enterprise)+ (development|growth)+|regeneration)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 312 | 0.41%
£10k - £100k | 396 | 0.58%
£100k - £250k | 220 | 1.06%
£250k - £500k | 150 | 1.52%
£500k - £1m | 109 | 1.77%
£1m - £10m | 125 | 1.47%
Over £10m | 21 | 1.03%
Total | 1,333 | 0.70%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 513 | 0.30%
ccni | 143 | 1.98%
oscr | 784 | 3.14%
Total | 1,440 | 0.71%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SWANSEA UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1138342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138342)]<br>The University advances learning and knowledge by teaching and research, and  engages in activities to promote and contribute to cultural, social and economic development within Wales and beyond. | £412,628,000
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £270,419,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>UK Centre for Ecology & Hydrology</strong> [Charity number: [SC049849](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049849)]<br>3.1 The Company's objects are for the benefit of the public, within the United Kingdom and overseas: 3.1.1 To advance science, in particular, through: 3.1.1.1 carrying out pure and applied scientific research in terrestrial and aquatic environments (nationally and internationally) including their interactions with the atmosphere, and publishing the useful results of such research. and 3.1.1.2 delivering scientific expertise in terrestrial and aquatic environments (nationally and internationally) including their interaction with the atmosphere. 3.1.2 To advance education in the environment and environmental sciences, and sustainable development, in particular through the promotion of research, the publication and dissemination of the useful results of such research, the training of research scientists of the future, and the distribution of materials that educate the public about these subjects. 3.1.3 To promote sustainable development for the benefit of the public by: 3.1.3.1 promoting the preservation, conservation, protection and improvement of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources. and 3.1.3.2 the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration. 'Sustainable development' means 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. 3.2 Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Company for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £60,478,000
<strong>FEDCAP UK</strong> [Charity number: [1175737](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175737)]<br>The activities of the charity is the advancement of social inclusion through enabling economic independence, employment and opportunity for disadvantaged and  disabled individuals through various workforce and economic development initiatives and programmes delivered across the UK. | £49,007,296
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £31,275,010
<strong>Argyll Community Housing Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC042713](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042713)]<br>2.1.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction  improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.1.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purpose of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. 2.1.3without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of Rules 2 and 3, and without restricting any powers, the Association has power to provide land, amenities and services, or provide, construct, repair or improve buildings, for the benefit of the Association’s tenants, residents and others, with the charitable purpose of promoting economic, social and environmental regeneration in any of the areas in which the Association operates or will operate. 2.1.4 to promote community empowerment in respect to decisions relating to the management and maintenance of the Association’s housing stock  | £30,605,000
<strong>LEMPRIERE PRINGLE 2015</strong> [Charity number: [1161516](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161516)]<br>The Charity is principally concerned with supporting community needs via Christian ministries in England at the suggestion of the Trustees, rather than inviting unsolicited applications.  A main focus is supporting the regeneration of Bishop Auckland and surrounding area via its sister charities The Auckland Castle Trust, Zurbaran Trust and Eleven Arches. | £30,390,184
<strong>Extern Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI103226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103226)]<br>Extern Group’s overarching mission is to help people to improve their lives and make communities safer. The charity manages the governance, financial and human resources, learning and development, business development, safeguarding and Health & Safety and estates and fleet, welfare and support for all organisations that form part of the Extern family of charitable companies. This enables those organisations to focus on direct service provision targeted at their direct beneficiaries including in NI: Children and young people who are supported through early intervention, prevention and diversionary services to remain in the community with their families; people who are homeless, at risk of homelessness or have been rehoused after a period of homelessness and are dealing with a range of complex issues such as poor mental health, addiction and dependence, anti-social behaviour; adults and young people who are unable to access mainstream education or training due to complex lives, offending and anti-social behaviours, who can attend Extern's alternative education and training programmes; people who have offended and are now resettling in the community and are provided with a range of support to promote rehabilitation and reduce their likelihood of re-offending; individuals/families who have been granted refugee status and given leave to remain. The Extern Group charity provides facilitation, administration and management of key personnel for partnerships between members of the Extern family of charities and other voluntary and public sector organisations to deliver a range of social welfare programmes. In addition Extern Group also provides direct support to social work students and other charitable organisations engaged in providing social work experience for students. | £22,714,901


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Helmsdale & District Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043078](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043078)]<br>4.1 To provide within Helmsdale and District recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 4.2 To advance education and in particular promote opportunities for learning for the benefit of the general public. 4.3 To advance the arts and / or culture. 4.4 To advance environmental protection and improvement in Helmsdale and District through the provision, maintenance and / or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and regeneration projects. (subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefits so arising clearly outweigh any private benefit thereby conferred by private landowners). 4.5 To provide or assist in the provision of housing for people in necessitous circumstances within Helmsdale and District. 4.6 To prevent or relieve poverty particularly among the residents of Helmsdale and District. 4.7 To relieve those in need of employment, particularly among the residents of Helmsdale and District, for the Public benefit in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. 4.8 To relieve those in need by promoting training, particularly among residents of Helmsdale and District, and with particular reference to skills which will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment.  4.9 To advance community development through the promotion of trade and industry within Helmsdale and District for the benefit of the general public. 4.10 To help young people, particularly those resident in the Helmsdale and District, to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities, such that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society. 4.11 To advance heritage and / or preserve, for the benefit of the general public,  (maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity) | £337,506
<strong>TOTTENHAM HOTSPUR FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1113725](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113725)]<br>Increase and widen participation across a range of sports, education and physical activity initiatives;Promote health and wellbeing;Support the continual improvement of educational attainment of children and young people;Help with training, development and employment opportunities; Contribute to community regeneration;Create opportunities for young people that help enhance their lives | £2,214,749
<strong>Dungannon Enterprise Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI107227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107227)]<br>Dungannon Enterprise Centre exists to promote the advancement of economic and community development, the promotion for the public benefit of urban and rural regeneration in Dungannon and surrounding areas. We do this by providing the following range of services; • The provision of a range of business units to let and meeting facilities on favorable terms • Funded enterprise support programmes and initiatives including pre-start programmes, start-up programmes and business development programmes for established businesses • Practical advice and mentoring to established businesses to help them flourish • Employability and enterprise support initiatives for local schools • Office and secretarial services for small businesses on favorable terms • Project and property management services and advice and support to community and voluntary organisations throughout the district | £686,392
<strong>Causeway Coast and Glens Heritage Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106064)]<br>The Causeway Coast and Glens Heritage Trust (CCGHT) has no statutory powers and as such seeks to influence and work in partnership with a range of statutory and other bodies to achieve its aims and objectives. In addition to influencing strategic direction, CCGHT secures and distributes funding to assist in the implementation and delivery of its own objectives. It supports the development of strategies and the delivery of programmes and plans, which aim to ensure the long-term benefit of the area and to balance this with current economic development in a sustainable manner. The aim of CCGHT is: "To raise awareness of the special qualities of the natural, built and cultural heritage of the Causeway Coast and Glens area including the Antrim Coast and Glens, Binevenagh, and, the Causeway Coast Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty; and, to promote environmental management and sustainable development that aims to conserve and enhance the unique heritage of the area for the benefit of all." CCGHT has responsibility for a large area of Northern Ireland covering two council areas – Causeway Coast & Glens and Mid & East Antrim Borough Councils. It includes 3 Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty - Binevenagh, Causeway Coast (including the Giant’s Causeway and Causeway Coast World Heritage Site) and Antrim Coast and Glens (including Rathlin Island). It also includes several Ramsar sites, which all have international importance for their bird life alongside many Special Areas of Conservation, Special Protection Areas and Areas of Special Scientific Interest. CCGHT is a public/private/ voluntary sector partnership set up in 2002 and managed by a Board of 12 Directors. Representation on the Board includes the local councils, voluntary sector bodies, tourism, government, farming and community organisations. With a small core staff and time bound project staff the Causeway Coast & Glens Heritage Trust is led by the Chief Executive Officer in the small North Antrim village of Armoy. | £856,771
<strong>'The Trades Widows' Fund Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC045467](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045467)]<br>7.2.1 the prevention and relief of poverty.  7.2.2 the advancement of education.  7.2.3 the advancement of religion.  7.2.4 the advancement of health.  7.2.5 the saving of lives.  7.2.6 the advancement of citizenship or community development, including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.  7.2.7 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.  7.2.8 the advancement of public participation in sport.   7.2.9 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the condition of life for the persons from whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.  7.2.10 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  7.2.11 the promotion of religious or racial harmony.  7.2.12the promotion of equality and diversity.  7.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.  7.2.14 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. and  7.2.15 the advancement of animal welfare. | £376,451
<strong>THE WORCESTERSHIRE FEDERATION OF WOMEN'S INSTITUTES CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1202917](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202917)]<br>3.1 THE OBJECTS OF THE FEDERATION ARE TO FURTHER THE PURPOSES OF THE WOMEN?S INSTITUTE MOVEMENT IN WORCESTERSHIRE AND ELSEWHERE.3.2 THE MAIN PURPOSES OF THE WOMEN'S INSTITUTE ORGANISATION ARE: (A) TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN AND GIRLS FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN ALL AREAS INCLUDING (WITHOUT LIMITATION):I. LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL ISSUES OF POLITICAL AND SOCIAL IMPORTANCE;II. MUSIC, DRAMA AND OTHER CULTURAL SUBJECTS; ANDIII. ALL BRANCHES OF AGRICULTURE, CRAFTS, HOME ECONOMICS, SCIENCE, HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE;(B) TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY:I. EDUCATING PEOPLE IN THE PRESERVATION, CONSERVATION AND PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE PRUDENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES; ANDII. PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE MEANS OF ACHIEVING ECONOMIC GROWTH AND REGENERATION;(C) TO ADVANCE HEALTH FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT; AND(D) TO ADVANCE CITIZENSHIP FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY THE PROMOTION OF CIVIC RESPONSIBILITY AND VOLUNTEERING.3.3 IN CLAUSE 3.2 "SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT" MEANS DEVELOPMENT WHICH MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE PRESENT GENERATION WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR NEEDS.3.4 THE WOMEN?S INSTITUTE ORGANISATION SEEKS TO GIVE WOMEN THE OPPORTUNITY OF WORKING TOGETHER THROUGH THE WOMEN?S INSTITUTE ORGANISATION IN THEIR COMMUNITIES, OF DEVELOPING THEIR CAPACITY AND SKILLS, AND OF PUTTING INTO PRACTICE THOSE IDEALS FOR WHICH THE WOMEN?S INSTITUTE ORGANISATION STANDS. | 
<strong>East Neuk Centre Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041717)]<br>3. CHARITABLE PURPOSES and POWERS   3.1. The Trust has been formed for the benefit and development of the community within the electoral ward of East Neuk and Landward in Fife (the “Community”), with the Charitable Purposes listed in Articles 3.1.1 to 3.1.4 below (the “Charitable Purposes”), to be exercised following the principles of sustainable development (where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs) and to further the achievement of sustainable development.   The Trust’s main purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development. The Charitable Purposes of the Trust are:   3.1.1. to provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community  and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.   3.1.2. to advance community development, including urban or rural regeneration within the Community.   3.1.3. to advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history. and   3.1.4. to advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community.   3.2. The Trust shall have powers, but only in furtherance of its Charitable Purposes, as expressed in Schedule 2 annexed to these Articles. | £155,574
<strong>Ballachulish Community Company</strong> [Charity number: [SC034120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034120)]<br>(a) To ameliorate the effects of poverty among persons residing in the Ballachulish and Glencoe Community Council Area ('the Operating .Area ). (b) To provide or assist in the provision within the Operating Area of facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation availalble to the public at large with a view to improving their conditions of life. (c) To promote for the public benefit the preservation (whether wholly or in part) of buildings and other structures of historic andlor architectural significance located within the Operating Area. (d) To advance education among the residents of the Operating Area, particularly among young people and the unemployed. (e) To ameliorate the effects of unemployment within the Operating Area for the public benefit in such ways as may be thought fit. (f) To promote andlor provide training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents of the Operating Area in obtaining piaid employment. (g) TO preserve, restore and improve the environment within the Operating Area through (i) protection andlor preservation of the natural environment and (ii) the provision, maintenance andlor improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the ,use for those purDposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use. (h) To promote good health practice, particularly among residents of the Operating Area. (i) to promote, establish, operate, andlor support scllemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of the residents of the Operating Area, withajut distinction of sex, race, colour or pol | £1,823
<strong>Stronsay Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038888](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038888)]<br>4 The company has been formed to benefit the community of Stronsay which comprises the following postcodes: KWI72AG, KWI72AF, KWI72AR, KWI72AJ, KWI72AN, KWI72AT, KW172AS, KW172AE ('the Community') with the following objects: 4.1 To provide recreational facilities and organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for members of the Community. 4.2 To advance education through: 4.2.1 the provision and supervision of learning-orientated extra-curricular activities for school and pre-school children. 4.2.2 the promotion of opportunities for learning for the benefit of the general public. and 4.2.3 the promotion of training, particularly among residents of the Community, and with particular reference to skills which assist the participants in obtaining paid employment. 4.3 To advance the arts, heritage and culture. 4.4 To advance environmental protection and improvement through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and regeneration projects (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefits so arising clearly outweigh any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners). 4.5 To provide, or assist in the provision of, housing for those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage within the Community. 4.6 To prevent and relieve poverty particularly among the residents of the Community. 4.7 To advance citizenship within the Community by encouraging, stimulating and supporting volunteering projects. 4.8 To preserve, for the benefit of the general public, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist in and around the Community in buildings (including any structure or erection, and any part of a building as so defined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest. 4.9 To advance the health and wellbeing of the residents of the Community and to prevent or relieve ill-health among residents of the Community and provision of health education for such residents. 4.10 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes which are in furtherance of charitable purposes for the benefit of the residents of the Community. | £430,119
<strong>Viewpark Gardens Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC050372](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050372)]<br>4 The company has been formed to benefit the community of the Viewpark community in North Lanarkshire (see attached area map), within the boundary of Old Edinburgh Road to the north, New Edinburgh Road to the south, Spindlehow to the west and Langside Avenue to the east, with the following objects:   (1) The advancement of community development (including the advancement of urban regeneration) within the community. (2) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science (3) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended But only to the extent that the above purposes are consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development.  | £3,482
