# Infrastructure `EC200`

Infrastructure is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](EC.md) categoryand the Infrastructure subcategory.

9 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.00% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2 | 0.00%
£10k - £100k | 2 | 0.00%
£100k - £250k | 1 | 0.00%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 9 | 0.00%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 7 | 0.00%
ccni | 2 | 0.03%
oscr | nan | nan%
Total | 9 | 0.00%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNSLEY CIVIC ENTERPRISE LTD.</strong> [Charity number: [1129765](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129765)]<br>The Civic is an artistic, cultural and business hub which provides a contemporary and creative environment offering local visitors and those from further afield a fantastic opportunity to access an extraordinary and diverse selection of visual art, dance, drama, comedy, music and family performances, right in the heart of Barnsley Town Centre. | £2,956,368
<strong>BEYOND SPORT FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1130439](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130439)]<br>As an international foundation, we support initiatives, generate ideas, and build partnerships that purposefully use sport and physical activity to do something greater. We have been supporting impactful projects, building platforms for change, and amplifying sport with intention around the world for more than a decade, all grounded in partnership and collaboration. | £1,928,175
<strong>THE PARSON CROSS COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FORUM</strong> [Charity number: [1102741](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102741)]<br>The Charity  provides an advice/information sign posting service to residents living in its area of benefit, also provides and supports activities that improve peoples health, well being and quality of life The Charity also acts as an umbrella organisation to ensure residents are consulted in the many regeneration and re-devolopment plans in the area. | £298,395
<strong>Saint Brigid's One World Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI102818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102818)]<br>St Brigid's Third World Group raises funding through donations and events and sends money to a number of different projects in countries in Africa, Asia and South America which provide help to poor and vulnerable people through feeding programmes, healthcare, clean water, education and training. | £269,117
<strong>INDEPENDENT TRANSPORT COMMISSION</strong> [Charity number: [1080134](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080134)]<br>The commission, which began work in 2000, is a business/transport/academic think tank researching and publishing reports on longer term transport and land issues. | £143,607
<strong>Glenarm Buildings Preservation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101136)]<br>GBPT works with statutory agencies to identify opportunities for preservation, it draws down grant aid to renovate and restore buildings and finds new uses to make them sustainable. GBPT promotes and encourages the education of the public in our heritage by engaging in research and drawing down funds to recruit volunteers and to train and educate the community about the significance of the local heritage and history. | £41,540
<strong>EAST SOMERSET SOCIETY OF MODEL AND EXPERIMENTAL ENGINEERS (LTD)</strong> [Charity number: [1122635](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122635)]<br>Design, building and upkeep of the railway's infrastructure. Construction and maintenance of  various locomotive types and rolling stock. Educational talks for members. Education and training of young people in the building and running the railway. Public running days for members of the public. Open Weekends for members of other model engineering societies. | £24,040
<strong>THE FAREHAM SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [271344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271344)]<br>An amenity society caring for both the built and the natural environment throughout the borough of Fareham. | £2,237
<strong>JAMES WILFORD (KENT) CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [223943](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223943)]<br>repair and maintenance of the highways under the control of the county council | £6


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
