# Water `EC202`

Water is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](/data/ukcat/EC) categoryand the Infrastructure subcategory.

311 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(water suppl(y|ies)+|supply of water|sewage|sanitation|saniti[sz]ation|water (purification|conservation|infrastructure)+|water pumps?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 121 | 0.15%
£10k - £100k | 87 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 30 | 0.15%
£250k - £500k | 13 | 0.14%
£500k - £1m | 13 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 17 | 0.21%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.11%
Total | 283 | 0.15%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 278 | 0.16%
oscr | 20 | 0.08%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 311 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Wateraid</strong> [Charity number: [SC039479](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039479)]<br>The object for which the Association is established is to relieve poverty and suffering in any part of the world through the improvement of water supplies, sanitation and advice on related health matters and to educate the public concerning the nature, causes and effects of such poverty and suffering. | £91,913,000
<strong>HAND IN HAND FOR AID AND DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1176805](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176805)]<br>Provide medical support complemented with water, hygiene and sanitation. Give the most vulnerable the means to support themselves and be independent. Support victims of war and improve their resilience Respond to emergencies by providing food, shelter & medical support. | £19,545,764
<strong>UNITED PURPOSE</strong> [Charity number: [272465](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-272465)]<br>United Purpose's activities can be broadly summarised as follows:Partnership and local capacity strengthening;Emergency prevention, preparedness and response; Health, including HIV/AIDS prevention and care; Rights and equity; Water and sanitation;Sustainable livelihoods, including food security and micro-enterprise. | £8,900,345
<strong>Ripple Effect International</strong> [Charity number: [299717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299717)]<br>Work in six countries in Africa to provide a package of on-going support and practical training over three to five years, including training in farming skills, gender equality, sanitation and money management . alongside the provision of livestock and tools - to ensure that some of Africa's most marginalised people have the confidence, knowledge and skills to help themselves. | £7,521,023
<strong>KHALSA AID INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1163294](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163294)]<br>Khalsa Aid International is a UK-based humanitarian relief charity  providing support around the world to victims of natural and man-made disasters such as floods, earthquakes, famine and war.Our team is often one of the first on the scene to help distribute food, water, clothing, medical and sanitation supplies. We fund and build semi-permanent shelters. We have active teams across the globe. | £7,388,164
<strong>THE SEVERN TRENT WATER CHARITABLE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1108278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108278)]<br>The relief of those persons who are in condition of need, poverty, hardship or other distress and are unable to meet or pay charges for the supply of water and/or sewerage services provided by Severn Trent Water Limited at such time or times and, insuch manner, as the Trustees think fit. | £6,509,679
<strong>RALEIGH INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1047653](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1047653)]<br>Raleigh International is a sustainable development charity. We harness the passion and energy of young people to effect positive change. Our programmes focus on providing access to safe water and sanitation, protecting vulnerable environments and building resilient communities. We operate in partnership with communities, non-governmental organisations and governments in 5 countries and in the UK. | £3,890,585
<strong>UNITED UTILITIES TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1108296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108296)]<br>The relief of those persons who are in condition of need, poverty, hardship or other distress and are unable to meet the cost of charges for the supply of water and/or sewerage services provided to premises used or occupied by them by United as water and/or sewerage undertaker appointed pursuant to the Water Industry Act 1991 (or any statutory modification or amendment to that Act). | £3,503,295
<strong>SURFERS AGAINST SEWAGE</strong> [Charity number: [1145877](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145877)]<br>Surfers Against Sewage is a national marine conservation and campaigning charity that inspires, unites and empowers communities to take action to protect oceans, beaches, waves and wildlife. | £2,444,898
<strong>THE WELSH WATER ELAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1001347](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001347)]<br>Administration of 47000 acre estate including provision of 28 tenanted agricultural holdings,in hand farming operation as part of conservation and public access remit.Also provides holiday cottages,education and information, 38 tenanted houses and conserves environment and safeguards water catchment which provides water supply to large parts of English Midlands | £2,216,257


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SINCERE GIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1197520](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197520)]<br>Sincere Giving helps the Rohingya people of Burma by providing them with food and water facilities such as water pumps and food aid packs. Our aim is to provide medical help for both physical and mental health through setting up clinics and by providing experts.We also aim to build centres to educate and help teach how the poor can find ways to become self-sufficient in the long run. | 
<strong>MAULANA HUSSAIN AHMED MADNI EDUCATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1111247](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111247)]<br>Sponsoring children, education and sanitation, health and nutrition, and income generation, in India, particularly but not exclusively in the State of Uttar Pardesh. | £92,611
<strong>KKL (Scotland) Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037850](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037850)]<br>1) To promote the advancement of environmental protection or improvement by supporting charitable projects within the State of Israel, particularly but not exclusively those carried out by Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael which promote the environmental reclamation of the lands of the State of Israel, the afforestation of the land, the preparation of the land to consolidate agricultural and urban settlement, the building of water reservoirs, the rehabilitation of rivers, the preservation of open spaces for the benefit of the public and other projects to enhance the physical and natural environment of the State of Israel for the benefit of all its residents. 2) To advance the education of the public in the State of Israel and worldwide in relation to the environmental reclamation and development of land, in particular but not exclusively in relation to the environmental reclamation and development of the lands of the State of Israel, and in relation to the role and importance of afforestation and water conservation and other forms of ecological conservation in order to improve the natural environment of the State of Israel and the quality of life of its residents, where appropriate, by supporting relevant charitable projects of Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael. 3) The prevention or relief of poverty in the State of Israel, where appropriate, by supporting relevant charitable projects of Keren Kayemeth LeIsrael. 4) To advance such other similar charitable objects for the benefit of the public, particularly but not exclusively the residents of the State of Israel, as the Trustees may determine. | £131,963
<strong>MEDICAL EDUCATION, SANITATION AND HEALTH IN ETHIOPIA</strong> [Charity number: [1174254](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174254)]<br>For 8 years, we have been visiting Wellega University, Nekemte and Lalibela in Ethiopia with groups that include doctors, healthcare staff and medical students, initially to help with teaching at the new medical school. We also visit local schools; the pandemic and current violence have stopped us visiting but we have continued a programme to dig wells and build segregated lavatories for them . | £100
<strong>A LITTLE BIT OF HOPE</strong> [Charity number: [1162178](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162178)]<br>a little bit of HOPE raises money in the UK to fund grass-roots development programmes in the Butaleja District of Uganda. We currently work across three areas; Education, Water & Sanitation and Livelihoods. | £48,845
<strong>Kilimanjaro Africa Water Fund</strong> [Charity number: [NI101951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101951)]<br>Every year prior to travelling to the mission in East Africa, committee members and advisors carefully plan the construction and prepare the materials for the completion of each individual project. At the backdrop of all projects is of course fund raising and each year an annual fundraising charity function is held a few days after Christmas. Last year generous donations funded the shipment of a 20ft container packed with essential items to aid the mission. Some of the main materials included: - Water pumps, both motorised and hand - Water purification systems - Plumbing equipment - Toilets and wash hand basins Some months later after the container has departed it will reach its destination and the volunteers will fly out to implement the work and complete the projects. | £37,516
<strong>SAVED BY GRACE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1199695](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199695)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO WHICH ARE FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, ARE SPECIFICALLY RESTRICTED TO THE FOLLOWING:(I) THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY OR FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IN MILTON KEYNES ENGLAND BY THE PROVISION OF FOOD, CLOTHING AND OTHER ITEMS OR SUPPORT(II) THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY OR FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WITHIN COMMUNITIES MOSTLY AFFECTED WITH POVERTY AND POOR LIVING CONDITIONS WITHIN RURAL AREAS IN BENUE STATE, NASARAWA STATE AND TARABA STATE IN NIGERIA BY PROVIDING OR ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF ITEMS, GOODS OR ASSISTANCE SUCH AS: -TENTS, SINGLE ROOMS THAT ARE FIT FOR PURPOSE AND BASIC SLEEPING ITEMS; -CLOTHING AND FOOD; -BOREHOLES FOR CLEAN WATER SUPPLY; AND -BASIC MEDICAL ASSISTANCE.(III) THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION IN RURAL AREAS IN BENUE STATE, NASARAWA STATE AND TARABA STATE IN NIGERIA BY:A. SPONSORING POOR CHILDREN IN SCHOOLS, PROVIDING SCHOOLBOOKS, STATIONARIES, BASIC SCHOOL MATERIALS AND IMPROVING SCHOOL FACILITIES.B. PROVIDING SPONSORSHIP FOR VOCATIONAL TRAINING TO EMPOWER THE POOR TO HAVE A LIFE SKILL IN COLLABORATION WITH OTHER LOCAL NON-PROFIT ORGANISATIONS AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES. | 
<strong>HOPE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY</strong> [Charity number: [1094573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094573)]<br>HOPE International Development Agency UK works with communities in extreme poverty to bring comprehensive transformation.  We provide access to clean water - an essential basic resource; equip and empower men, women and children, with training in sanitation and hygiene; and strengthen livelihoods through women's self-help groups, and environmental protection and food security measures. | £142,130
<strong>SIFOE DIASPORA ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1192799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192799)]<br>THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED, BY REASON OF, AGE, ILL-HEALTH, DISABILITY, ECONOMIC OR SOCIAL DISADVANTAGE IN SIFOE, THE GAMBIA BY THE PROVISION OF GRANTS OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO PROVIDE AND MAINTAIN ESSENTIAL FACILITIES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO CLEAN AND SAFE WATER SUPPLIES, DRAINAGE, SANITATION, ENERGY SYSTEMS, HOUSING, MEDICAL FACILITIES, SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITY FACILITIES WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE INHABITANTS AND/OR PROVIDING ALL THE NECESSARY SUPPORT DESIGNED TO ENABLE INDIVIDUALS TO BE SELF-SUFFICIENT. | 
<strong>HAND IN HAND FOR AID AND DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1176805](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176805)]<br>Provide medical support complemented with water, hygiene and sanitation. Give the most vulnerable the means to support themselves and be independent. Support victims of war and improve their resilience Respond to emergencies by providing food, shelter & medical support. | £19,545,764
