# Energy `EC201`

Energy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Economic and community development](/data/ukcat/EC) categoryand the Infrastructure subcategory.

165 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.08% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(community energy|renewable energy|energy infrastructure|natural gas|electricity|hyrdo|wind energy|wind farms?|national grid)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 62 | 0.08%
£10k - £100k | 47 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 20 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 12 | 0.14%
£1m - £10m | 12 | 0.16%
£500k - £1m | 3 | 0.05%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 156 | 0.08%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 101 | 0.06%
oscr | 49 | 0.19%
ccni | 15 | 0.23%
Total | 165 | 0.08%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Energy Agency</strong> [Charity number: [SC029479](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029479)]<br>The company's objects are to advance environmental protection and to advance the education of the public in the fields of energy conservation and efficiency and pollution reduction by promoting awareness of, and encouraging the adoption of, practices which are directed towards increasing the more efficient use of energy, the use of renewable energy sources and the use of less polluting fuels. | £9,331,662
<strong>The Electrical Safety Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC039990](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039990)]<br>The objects for which the Council is established are, for the public benefit, to advance health and the saving of lives by promoting the safe use of electricity in all its applications and protecting and procuring the protection of consumers of electricity against faulty, unsafe and defective electrical installations, products and equipment. | £7,007,000
<strong>BRITISH GAS ENERGY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1179578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179578)]<br>The Trust contributes to the relief of poverty, with a particular focus on fuel poverty.  It helps families and individuals experiencing hardship who are struggling with gas and electricity debts by awarding grants to clear those debts.  The Trust also funds organisations across England, Wales and Scotland to provide fuel debt and money advice services within communities. | £6,002,823
<strong>SEVERN WYE ENERGY AGENCY</strong> [Charity number: [1083812](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083812)]<br>Education and promotion of sustainable resource use, energy efficiency and renewable energy to tackle the fuel poverty and to improve health, wellbeing and quality of life for all. Protection of the environment, relief of poverty and community regeneration through sustainable development solutions, training and delivery, to meet the needs of the present without compromising future generations. | £3,194,804
<strong>Ashden Climate Solutions</strong> [Charity number: [1104153](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104153)]<br>To contribute to the protection of the environment, the advancement of education and relief of poverty for the public benefit in developing countries, UK and elsewhere, by promoting the use of local sustainable and renewable energy sources. | £3,138,526
<strong>Bryson Energy</strong> [Charity number: [NI100960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100960)]<br>Services currently provided under the auspices of the Bryson Charitable Group will transfer to the subsidiary company Bryson Energy from 1st April 2015. Bryson Energy will work to address the causes of fuel poverty – low income, energy inefficient homes and high fuel costs. These services currently include providing advice on ways to create affordable warmth, carrying out benefit assessment checks, installing efficient heating systems and insulation. Past experience highlights that benefit assessment checks will increase the benefits received by 45% of the low income households advised by an average of £36.62 per week. Bryson Energy will promote and increase individual and collective knowledge of energy conservation and energy efficiency, providing information to low income households and presentations to school children. Bryson Energy will also promote conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources through researching, piloting and increasing access to renewable energy sources for low income households. | £2,710,629
<strong>PURE LEAPFROG</strong> [Charity number: [1112249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112249)]<br>We are dedicated to ensuring community energy becomes a significant part of sustainable energy in the UK through accessible expertise & affordable finance to community energy groups. Our member network provides free expert professional advice to help carbon reduction projects overcome barriers to success. Our Community Energy Fund offers low interest loans for community renewable energy projects. | £2,298,591
<strong>Action Renewables Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100806](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100806)]<br>Action Renewables supports renewable energy development, develops and supports European Projects, offers quality assurance to the renewable energy industry – Microgeneration Certification Scheme (MCS) accreditation and provides advice and information to Government. | £2,074,105
<strong>HAMPTON FUEL ALLOTMENT</strong> [Charity number: [211756](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211756)]<br>Hampton Fuel Allotment Charity supports families and individuals on low income with a grant to help with the costs of gas and electricity; and supports organisations to provide services and activities for those in need through grantmaking. | £1,945,918
<strong>RENEWABLE WORLD</strong> [Charity number: [1119467](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119467)]<br>Renewable World tackles poverty through renewable energy. It works in East Africa and South Asia to promote affordable reliable energy services for poor consumers to improve income generation, enterprise development, health & education. Our unique relationship with the Renewable Energy industry allows us to leverage skills, expertise and resources to support and develop our work. | £1,779,685


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Energy for Everyone</strong> [Charity number: [SC046180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046180)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 Energy For Everyone's principal purposes are 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship or community development. 4.1.3 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 4.2 Energy For Everyone aim to fulfil those purposes through the following projects: 4 .2.1 To provide access to electricity to poor and isolated people in Latin America that lack reliable access to energy, and to aid people relying on expensive and unsustainable fossil fuels for local generation. 4.2.2 To provide access to sustainable modem energy services (electricity) for cooking, heating, lighting, education improvements, communications, and/or mechanical power for productive uses (e.g. water pump) to poor or isolated people/communities or at social risk where existing infrastructure is ineffective or not available. 4.2.3 To deliver an integral aid portfolio for each project providing training to operate and maintain the systems, dental health and nutritional education and, if applicable, business development consultancy for small entrepreneurs within poor communities  | 
<strong>AL-RADWA CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1191444](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191444)]<br>The objects of the CIO is to work towards improving the quality of life for those suffering from poverty, some of which have resulted from wars. The objective of the charity is to raise funds to assist with providing necessary education, shelter, clothing, food and also providing access to water sources and electricity for those living in poverty. | 
<strong>Footprint East Neuk (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC050194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050194)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are: Overall: To reduce the ecological footprint of the East Neuk of Fife, and connect people with nature. Public benefit: Protecting and restoring the natural world, particularly through mitigation of the climate crisis and reducing waste, are fundamental to preserving a healthy global ecosystem upon which the survival of the human race depends. In addition, connecting communities with nature enriches the lives of many people.  Specific purposes:  4.1 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement in the East Neuk of Fife and surrounding areas, in particular but not exclusively by:  a.	promoting methods by which local people can reduce their carbon emissions. b.	promoting energy saving measures and the use of renewable energy. c.	organizing and promoting tree planting. d.	restoring natural vegetation (eg. wildflowers) that will be beneficial to species on the UK Biodiversity Action Plan. e.	creating wildlife corridors to connect patches of existing wild habitat. f.	promoting sustainable development; including sustainable travel, recycling facilities, reusable packaging and reducing excessive consumerism. g.	building partnerships between local environmental groups, community groups and public sector bodies that contribute to local decision making on environmental issues. h.	building a community website focusing on local environmental initiatives.  4.2 The advancement of education by encouraging public understanding and enjoyment of science and the natural world, in particular but not exclusively by:  i.	organizing an annual Science and Nature Festival in the East Neuk of Fife. j.	interactive workshops and public engagement events. k.	making scientific evidence on the climate crisis and other environmental issues more accessible and readable for the communities of the East Neuk. l.	organizing a regular Climate Café. m.	conducting appropriate research projects.   | 
<strong>Black Hill Wind Farm Community Fund Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC040945](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040945)]<br>a) the advancement of community development within the environs of the Blackhill Wind Farm including but not limited to the Community Council areas of Abbey St Bathans, Preston & Bonkyl, Cranshaws, Ellemford & Longformacus, Duns and Gavinton, Fogo and Polwarth (the 'Blackhill Community') by providing funding for the regeneration, maintenance and improvement of the physical, social and economic infrastructure of the Blackhill Community, including the provision, maintenance and improvement of social, recreational, health, educational, cultural and environmental facilities within the Blackhill Community;  (b) generally to do all such things as shall further these aims and objects. | £37,794
<strong>Rathlin Development & Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI100375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100375)]<br>Rathlin Development & Community Association (RDCA) is the voluntary body that represents the Rathlin Island community, working to improve conditions and to enable the sustainable development of the island, its community and its environment. The RDCA membership elects a committee of volunteers that are heavily involved in a range of projects, from training and skills development to renewable energy and much more in between. The RDCA works with islanders and with public and voluntary agencies to improve the physical infrastructure and essential services and develop tourism and community facilities. In 2010, the Northern Ireland Executive endorsed a ‘Rathlin Policy’, recognising that the challenges faced by an island community are different from those on the mainland, and need to be addressed in a different way. The Executive supports the RDCA in its work to ensure the sustainability of island life and the promotion of a vibrant island community. Through educational and cultural programmes, study visits and an innovative Maritime Festival the RDCA looks to strengthen its regional connections with neighbours across the water in Ballycastle, the northern coast of Ireland and the Scottish islands. Through the empowerment of a community development programme, the community is increasingly aware of the opportunities to take greater responsibility for and management of its own assets. Developing local capacity though volunteering, leadership and networking strengthens the community’s intent to develop social enterprise making best use of its own resources and lowering grant dependency. This unlocks potential and increases confidence in residents, creating a more vibrant and healthy community that thrives from within, celebrates and builds on its proud traditions of cultural heritage and has an eye to the island’s future as a more sustainable home for its current population and a place of welcome and inspiration for those who come for purposes of research or recreation. | £55,304
<strong>ASSOCIATION OF AFRICANS IN UK</strong> [Charity number: [1166550](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166550)]<br>Support children and orphanage in educational establishments Providing educational facilities and refurnishing of dilapidated schools.Providing furniture and equipment to refurnish classrooms. Providing facilities for safe drinking water, electricity and sanitation for pupils and teachers. Providing educational support for children and young people with books and  library facilities. | 
<strong>ELLINGHAM COMMUNITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1149186](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149186)]<br>To disburse community funds received from Wandylaw Wind Farm within Ellingham Parish, Northumberland.   Funding is used improve communications through broadband and transport.  These are both aspects to do with preventing isolation and rural poverty.  The other areas of very high priority from a local survey were sustainability with renewable energies and improving the thermal comfort of homes. | £43,988
<strong>DERBY GRAMMAR SCHOOL TANZANIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1170166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170166)]<br>We support children in a region of Tanzania through links to a Primary School in Mwanza . Donations to the project help to provide new classrooms, furniture for classrooms, stationery for students, sanitary wear for girls, fresh water, textbooks, electricity, equipment, e.g. for sports or special needs children.  The Project also supports a local baby home, orphanage  and street children's centre. | £5,712
<strong>Wheelworks</strong> [Charity number: [NI103027](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103027)]<br>WheelWorks is a youth arts organisation working with children and young people aged 4 – 25 who may not otherwise have access to high quality artistic activity. We work in partnership with all types of communities throughout Northern Ireland to provide taster workshops and issue based programmes which help young people learn new skills and express themselves through traditional and digital art. The ArtCart is WheelWorks' unique dedicated mobile arts vehicle: an amazing purpose built vehicle featuring a darkroom/ sound recording studio, digital music and photography computer workstations with all the latest software and stage facilities. The ArtCart delivers both WheelWorks projects and taster workshops, and is especially popular at festivals, family fun days and events across Northern Ireland. The vehicle is fully accessible and needs no electricity supply, so can reach any part of Northern Ireland. WheelWorks engages approximately 2,500 young people per year on its programmes, which are delivered under 4 main strands of activity - Multiple Realities: issue based, sustained and accredited projects which use traditional and digital arts to explore young people’s identity; ArtCart Outreach and Festivals Programme: taster workshops and short projects both directly in young people’s communities and at festivals and events across NI; Community/ Training Programmes: Activity delivered in response to community demand, and training for youth/ arts workers in working with vulnerable young people. Young people who benefit include those aged 4-25 from: areas of social and economic deprivation, minority ethnic communities, rurally isolated communities, disabled young people, young refugees and asylum seekers and young people of different sexual orientation. Indirect beneficiaries include: community leaders, youth workers, teachers, professional artists, event organisers and general public at open ArtCart workshops Wider beneficiaries include young people's communities | £373,751
<strong>FRIENDS OF COED GWILYM PARK</strong> [Charity number: [1182299](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182299)]<br>Our objective is to improve the facilities at Coed Gwilym Park, Clydach , Swansea SA6 5NS. We will do this with donations received from local individuals , local businesses and running local events. We will also be applying for grants from various sources such as the Community Lottery Fund, Mynydd Y Gwair Wind Farm, Garfield Weston Foundation, Landfill Tax , Co Op Group, Tesco and others. | £12,009
