# Further education `ED102`

Further education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) category.

2,738 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.35% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(colleges?|further education)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 936 | 1.31%
£10k - £100k | 744 | 1.06%
£100k - £250k | 257 | 1.15%
£250k - £500k | 142 | 1.28%
£500k - £1m | 90 | 1.29%
£1m - £10m | 265 | 2.89%
Over £10m | 207 | 9.21%
Total | 2,641 | 1.36%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,233 | 1.30%
oscr | 347 | 1.39%
ccni | 158 | 2.26%
Total | 2,738 | 1.35%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £344,497,000
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF CHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [525938](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-525938)]<br>Provision of higher and further education. | £154,160,000
<strong>Jisc</strong> [Charity number: [SC053607](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053607)]<br>The objects of the charity are restricted to the advancement of education, lifelong learning and research, for the public benefit, through the provision of services to those within higher education, further education, research communities and charitable and/or not for profit organisations including those in the public sector and the public at large, principally but not exclusively by the provision and/or maintenance of digital technology and/or by providing or supporting services connected with or delivered through digital technology and/or the provision of data and associated services. To guide but not so as to restrict those objects the charity has among its aims:    i. promoting the adoption and use of information technology in all its forms, including but not limited to digital infrastructure, applications, cloud services, data, security, content, discovery    ii. enriching the educational experience and improving the quality of research    iii. thought leadership    iv. conducting and supporting careers advice and student services. | £150,710,000
<strong>TRINITY COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1137604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137604)]<br>Provision, along with the University, of education of the highest standard for some 1100 undergraduate and graduate students; maintaining a Chapel, extensive Library, and substantial buildings; promoting research by its Fellows and students; and making grants to others with similar objects.  Although situated in Cambridge, Trinity's members come from a very wide range of areas and backgrounds. | £105,509,000
<strong>THE KYNGE'S COLLEGE OF OUR LADYE OF ETON BESYDE WINDESORE</strong> [Charity number: [1139086](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139086)]<br>Eton College was founded by Henry VI in 1440. Today it is an independent boys' boarding school whose charitable purpose is the advancement of education by the provision, support and conduct of a school and ancillary or incidental educational activities for the benefit of students and/or the wider community; and the preservation and maintenance of the College's historic buildings and Collections. | £99,570,000
<strong>City of Glasgow College</strong> [Charity number: [SC036198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036198)]<br>To manage and conduct the College. To ensure that the College provides (either by itself or by arrangement with any other person) suitable and efficient further education to the students of the College and in carrying out this duty the Board shall have regard to the provision of education in the area in which the College is situated and to the likely needs of persons wishing to become students of the College. To make such reports or returns and give such information to the Scottish Executive as they may require for the purposes of the exercise of their powers and the performance of their duties under Part I of the 1992 Act. To comply with any directions of a general or specific nature with regard to the discharge of their functions as may be given to the Board by the Scottish Executive under section 21 of the 1992 Act. To publish prescribed information relating to students of the College and disabled staff of the College as may be required by regulations made by the Secretary of State under section 27 of the 1992 Act, provided that published information shall not disclose the name of any student to whom it relates without the prior written consent of such student. To submit to the Funding Council, not later than such date in every financial year as the Council may determine, a college development plan in respect of the College the preparation and content of such plan to conform to the Funding Council guidance. To keep proper accounts and other records conform to the provisions of the Funding Council's Financial Memorandum.  When requested to do so by the authority, to provide to the authority as soon as is reasonably practicable such information or advice as the authority may reasonably request from the Board to facilitate the carrying out by the authority of their duty under section 65B of the 1980 Act | £93,453,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £84,723,000
<strong>BRIGHTON COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [307061](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307061)]<br>Provision of a first class independent education for children between the ages of 3 to 18.  Subject to donations and budgetary limits, scholarship awards are made on the basis of the individual's educational potential and bursary awards are made to enable academically able children to benefit where financial hardship might otherwise preclude. | £80,724,839
<strong>MARLBOROUGH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [309486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309486)]<br>Marlborough College is incorporated by Royal Charter and registered as an education charity.  The College provides education for boys and girls for the ages 13-18.  The number of pupils in the College averaged 924 of whom 888 were boarders and 36 were day pupils. Under its grant making policy the total number of pupils receiving fee assistance in the academic year 2014/15 was 119. | £77,747,000
<strong>THE WELLINGTON COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [309093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309093)]<br>The Charity aims to provide a world-class education that will enable its pupils to realise their full potential in academic, sporting, artistic and social skills and to engender in them a spirit of self-confidence, a desire to serve the wider community, an international outlook and an enthusiastic attitude to work and life. | £76,225,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Malawi Music Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC045661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045661)]<br>to improve the lives of disadvantaged orphaned children living in Malawi by providing activities in music and the arts in partnership with Malawian teachers and musicians. to provide recreational opportunities not normally available for orphaned children living in Malawi by running residential workshops in music, art and sport during each school holiday, and occasional workshop weekends focusing on traditional dancing and drumming. to advance the education of orphaned children living in Malawi by providing bursaries to pay for school fees, uniforms, shoes and books, thus enabling the children to attend secondary school. to advise on post-secondary school educational opportunities for orphaned young people in Malawi, in consultation with head teachers and further education establishments in Malawi. to advance the relief of poverty through the provision of bursaries to fund further education and vocational training for orphaned young people in Malawi, thus enabling them to break free of a cycle of poverty and unemployment.  | £30,674
<strong>COKA (COMMUNITY OF KING ALFRED'S)</strong> [Charity number: [1085794](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085794)]<br>Parents association supporting King Alfred's college through fund raising, small lottery and social events. All surpluses ultimately awarded as grants to King Alfred's college or other local charities. | £5,003
<strong>Association of Marine Electronic & Radio Colleges Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC039016](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039016)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are (a) the advancement of public education and training in the fields of marine radio, electronics, telecommunications, radar and electronic navigational systems.  (b) to hold and conduct such examinations as should be necessary to test or determine the skill and efficiency of persons presenting themselves for such examinations. | £141,057
<strong>SPRINGWELL COMMUNITY SCHOOL PTFA</strong> [Charity number: [1094081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094081)]<br>Springwell Parents, Friends and Teachers Association is a group of people who raise funds and support the College whilst having fun! Every Springwell student benefits from the funds that we raise. We hold different events, but some favourites include: Fashion Shows, Bingo Evenings, Christmas Fayre, Treasure Hunts, Race Nights, Beetle Drives and Summer Fayre | 
<strong>Laikenbuie Ecology Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC051617](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051617)]<br>4 The organisation will operate as a non-profit distributing charity whose  purposes are: (a) The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. To manage the farm and land known as Laikenbuie, Nr Nairn, as a working example of sustainable, organic small scale agriculture and landscape re-wilding, operating in synergy and in the interests of enabling a diversity of natural flora & fauna.  (b) The advancement of education To provide organised opportunities for land based learning, environmental & nature education, and health & well-being programmes for schools, colleges and local community groups within a working farm environment where nature can flourish with minimal intervention  | £31,101
<strong>CHARITY FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE ROMAN CATHOLIC RELIGION IN THE ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESES OF SOUTHWARK AND ARUNDEL AND BRIGHTON</strong> [Charity number: [251342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-251342)]<br>The Seminary is a college training students in preparation for ordination as Catholic Priests. | 
<strong>THE EMSCOTE AND ALL SAINTS PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1105107](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1105107)]<br>To raise funds through events and social functions for the benefit of the pupils of Emscote Infant School and All Saints Junior School. This may include provision of new equipment to further education, contributions to school trips and improvements to the school environment. | £13,439
<strong>THE FOUNDATION OF SAINT MATTHIAS</strong> [Charity number: [311696](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311696)]<br>The Foundation's primary object is the advancement of education in the area of benefit, in particular the Dioceses of Bath & Wells, Bristol and Gloucester but extending to the whole of the United Kingdom, with a preference for higher or further education; such education contributing to the advancement of the Church of England. | £242,945
<strong>THE JEAN BENEDETTI CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1150953](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150953)]<br>Providing scholarships for Rose Bruford College (RBC) students of outstanding ability studying on theatre and performance-related undergraduate programmes.  Also providing scholarships for RBC graduates undertaking postgraduate studies in these specific subject areas either in the UK or abroad, or for graduates of any other institution undertaking postgraduate studies at Rose Bruford College. | £1,199
<strong>TADS (THERAPIES FOR ANXIETY, DEPRESSION AND STRESS)</strong> [Charity number: [1173392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173392)]<br>We are a mental health charity based in Barnsley, we have a team of staff and volunteers who support 5 to 25 year olds with mental health issues. The charity works within Schools, Colleges and through funders offers young people the following services...WellbeingPlay TherapyCounsellingLGBTQ support | £59,688
