# Higher education `ED103`

Higher education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) category.

2,261 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(higher education|universit(ies|y)|graduate school|business school)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`U\.?3\.?A|third age`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 707 | 0.99%
£10k - £100k | 573 | 0.81%
£100k - £250k | 217 | 0.97%
£250k - £500k | 116 | 1.05%
£500k - £1m | 109 | 1.56%
£1m - £10m | 283 | 3.08%
Over £10m | 152 | 6.76%
Total | 2,157 | 1.11%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,829 | 1.07%
oscr | 346 | 1.39%
ccni | 86 | 1.23%
Total | 2,261 | 1.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>University Of Edinburgh</strong> [Charity number: [SC005336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005336)]<br>The advancement of education. Any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the other preceding purposes. | £1,534,200,000
<strong>University Of Glasgow Court</strong> [Charity number: [SC004401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004401)]<br>The advancement of education. The advancement of health. The advancement of, arts, heritage, culture, or science. | £1,070,400,000
<strong>CARDIFF UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1136855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136855)]<br>The University provides Higher Education to the general public which will also include numerous research activities. For more detail see the Public Benefit Statement within the Annual Financial Statements. | £634,070,682
<strong>The Open University</strong> [Charity number: [SC038302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038302)]<br>The objects of the University shall be the advancement and dissemination of learning and knowledge by teaching and research by a diversity of means such as broadcasting and technological devices appropriate to higher education, by correspondence tuition, residential courses and seminars and in other relevant ways, and shall be to provide education of University and professional standards for its students and to promote the educational well-being of the community generally. | £578,500,000
<strong>The Queen's University of Belfast</strong> [Charity number: [NI101788](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101788)]<br>The University provides teaching and research in both a local, a national and international context. It is an autonomous body, established under the Irish Universities Act 1908 and bound by the provisions of its Charter and Statutes. | £489,483,000
<strong>University Of Strathclyde</strong> [Charity number: [SC015263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015263)]<br>The advancement of education. The advancement of arts, heritage, culture, or science. | £433,257,000
<strong>CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1098136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098136)]<br>UNIVERSITY OF HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION, INCLUDING RESEARCH. | £353,761,000
<strong>University Of St Andrews</strong> [Charity number: [SC013532](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013532)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £353,331,000
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £344,497,000
<strong>University Of Dundee</strong> [Charity number: [SC015096](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015096)]<br>To provide instruction in such branches of learning as the (A) University may think fit, whether for members of the University or for others, and to make provision for research and for the advancement and dissemination of knowledge in such a manner as the University may determine. (B) To prescribe in the Ordinances of the University the conditions under which any person may be admitted as a student of the University or to any particular course of study provided by the University. (C) To grant, under conditions laid down in the Statutes or Ordinances, a degree, diploma, certificate or other academic award to any person who shall have pursued a course of study approved by the University and shall have passed the examinations or other tests prescribed by the University. The advancement of education. | £335,418,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>R & A Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC034817](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034817)]<br>“The Company is established for the following charitable objects only, namely:- To advance public participation in sport in the UK and internationally, and in particular the sport of golf by: providing facilities and equipment for playing and coaching the sport of golf to, and to ensure that the use of such facilities and equipment is available to and affordable by, any member of the public who wishes to participate. facilitating and, funding and otherwise supporting organised, golfing events and competitions. providing and funding training courses to ensure that there is a pool of adequately qualified instructors available to coach the sport of golf. providing facilities and equipment to introduce and coach the sport of golf to members of the community. and facilitating and, funding and otherwise supporting projects promoting the health benefits of golf.  The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, in the UK and internationally with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended by: facilitating, funding and otherwise supporting golf and leisure facilities that deliver programmes and opportunities centred around golf, and to ensure that such recreational facilities and activities are accessible to the public.  To advance education in the UK and internationally by:  providing, by way of grants, bursaries, scholarships or otherwise, financial assistance to enable any one or more persons to attend any school, college or university. and by acquiring and preserving records and artefacts relating directly or indirectly thereto in the history of golf.  To advance the arts, heritage and culture in the UK and internationally by: preserving and maintaining buildings of architectural, historical and/or environmental importance. and by acquiring and preserving records and artefacts in the history of golf relating directly or indirectly thereto.  To advance the promotion of equality and diversity in the UK and internationally by: facilitating, funding and otherwise supporting equality and diversity initiatives and projects related to golf.  To advance environmental protection and improvement in the UK and internationally by: facilitating, funding and otherwise supporting golf related projects that contribute to and promote environmental excellence and world class sustainability leadership in resource efficiency, conservation, and social value.  The advancement of health in the UK and internationally by: facilitating, funding and otherwise promoting research into the benefits to both mental and physical health of participation in golf.”  | £7,973,000
<strong>THE ROKOS SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1218525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1218525)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY ARE THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY THE SUPPORT OF THE SCHOOL, SUCH SCHOOL TO BE A FACULTY OR EQUIVALENT ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT OF THE UNIVERSITY AND SUCH SUPPORT TO INCLUDE BUT NOT BE LIMITED TO THE PROVISION OF AND/OR GRANTS FOR PREMISES, ACADEMIC TEACHING, RESEARCH AND OTHER ACADEMIC ACTIVITIES, AND FUNDING FOR STUDENTS STUDYING AT THE SCHOOL (THE OBJECTS). THE SCHOOL IS DEFINED AS: "THE ROKOS SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT", TO BE FOUNDED IN 2026 BY THE UNIVERSITY AS A FACULTY (AND ADMINISTRATIVE UNIT) OF THE UNIVERSITY.THE UNIVERSITY IS DEFINED AS "THE CHANCELLOR, MASTERS AND SCHOLARS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE". | 
<strong>Scottish Lawn Tennis Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC004119](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004119)]<br>3.  The objects for which the Company is established ('the Charitable Objects ') are:- (a)  the advancement for the benefit of the public of the education of children and young persons of school age or who are pupils at Schools or Universities by organising or providing facilities which will enable and encourage them to play tennis or short tennis (being a version of tennis adapted for children) and thereby ensuring that due attention is given to the physical education of such pupils as well as to the development and occupation of their minds. (b)  the organisation or provision (or assistance in the organisation or provision) of facilities for recreation in the interests of social welfare in any part of Scotland (with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities are primarily intended) either for persons who have need of such facilities by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social or economic circumstances or for members of the public at large. | £56,747
<strong>Belfast School of Theology Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI104482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104482)]<br>The College teaches students in a non-denominational setting the truths of the Christian religion explaining and discussing the differences in interpretation of the Biblical text by the major denominations. The college provides a range of courses that are open to anyone with the academic qualification suitable for the course being provided. Courses cater for members of the public who have no prior knowledge of the Christian religion; those wishing to further their knowledge through evening class or day release courses; undergraduate degree courses currently moderated by the University of Cumbria and for which certain academic standards are required as determined by that University; and post graduate degrees currently moderated by the Queens University of Belfast for which certain academic standards are required as determined by that University. The college also organises meetings and events that promote our charitable purpose and which are open to the general public. The college participates in the life of the local community and overseas though students of the College assisting in churches, missionary societies and charities as part of the practical service element of the courses offered. The college holds services of worship and other religious activities for its students and staff as well as supporters of the College. It encourages prayer in support of the students of the college, other Christian organisations, the community and leaders in society and government. | £461,282
<strong>St Andrews Film Festival</strong> [Charity number: [SC050596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050596)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:   4.1 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science, to promote religious and racial harmony through the acquisition and exhibition of films of artistic and cultural significance by running an annual film festival in the historic town of St Andrews. The film festival aims to provide advocacy for emerging filmmakers by giving them a platform to showcase their work and foster their development in the British film industry.   The advancement of education by providing a platform for showcasing amateur, semi-professional and professional films and creating opportunities for productive knowledge exchange between emerging filmmakers and established filmmakers in Scotland and/or the rest of the world, the local academic community, the industry and the public by running industry workshops, masterclasses, conferences and networking receptions, and similar interactive events whether they are online or in person, respectively.   4.2 To collaborate with and support the local Filmmaking societies in Scotland.   4.3 To inspire filmmaking and volunteering amongst the local community, secondary schools, colleges, the University of St Andrews and Scotland.  | £1,079
<strong>GUILDFORD CLASSICAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [281396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281396)]<br>We promote interest in and understanding of classical civilisation and languages in Surrey schools and among adults. We engage speakers from universities and elsewhere for seminars on classical topics. We hold competitions for schools to foster enthusiasm for classics. We provide training for teachers, including keeping them up to date with changes in examination syllabuses and requirements. | £860
<strong>NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY (USA) FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1184246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184246)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are:(a) the advancement of learning and education in particular (but without limitation) at or in connection with Northwestern University; (b) such other exclusively charitable purposes under the law of England and Wales as the Trustees may in their absolute discretion determine. | £398,806
<strong>NORTON EDUCATIONAL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [529370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-529370)]<br>1. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TOWARDS THE PROVISION OF RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE DOCTRINE OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND TO ANY AIDED SCHOOL WHICH IS ATTENDED BY CHILDREN RESIDENT IN THE ANCIENT PARISH OF NORTON2. THE PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE FOR HIGHER EDUCATION BY MEANS OF EXHIBITIONS OR FINANCIAL HELP TO ENABLE BENEFICIARIES TO PREPARE FOR, OR TO ENTER, A TRADE, PROFESSION OR CALLING | £989
<strong>MalDent Student Aid</strong> [Charity number: [SC050001](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050001)]<br>The organisations purposes are:  4.1      The advancement of education. 4.2      The relief of those in need. Primarily by, but not limited to: 4.3      Enhancing the opportunities for Malawian students from poorer backgrounds to enter the study programme at the University of Malawi  College  of  Medicine  that  culminates  in  award  of  a Bachelor of Dental Surgery degree. 4.4      Raising funds that can provide support for students in the form of  a 'hardship  fund',  to  be  called 'Dentist  to  Dentist', for Malawian students enrolled on the Bachelor of Dental Surgery programme  at  the  University  of  Malawi  College  of  Medicine who  are  struggling  to  fund  costs  of  food,  accommodation,  or transportation.      | £1,711
<strong>THE UNIVERSITY OF NORTHAMPTON STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1144827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144827)]<br>The University of Northampton Students' Union exists to support students at the University as they progress through their studies.  We do this by: -- providing guidance and support for educational needs;- delivering welfare awareness campaigns;- providing personal and team development opportunities, through sports clubs and other societies; and- providing social space and activities. | £906,579
