# Primary education `ED104`

Primary education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) category.

5,436 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.70% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((primary|first|preparatory|elementary|prep)+ (school|education))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,754 | 4.47%
£10k - £100k | 1,194 | 1.86%
£100k - £250k | 160 | 0.86%
£250k - £500k | 49 | 0.56%
£500k - £1m | 26 | 0.47%
£1m - £10m | 109 | 1.42%
Over £10m | 16 | 0.92%
Total | 5,308 | 2.78%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,948 | 2.93%
ccni | 323 | 4.69%
oscr | 165 | 0.65%
Total | 5,436 | 2.70%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MILLFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [310283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310283)]<br>The education of children and young people within Millfield School and Millfield Prep School (including Pre-Prep); the development of associated extra-curricular activites; the operation of educational and recreational courses. | £47,586,000
<strong>DULWICH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [1150064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150064)]<br>The advancement of education of children for the benefit of the public by: a) the conduct at Dulwich of a day and boarding school for boys which may include a preparatory department, and if thought fit, the provision of a pre-preparatory school for boys and girls; and b) the provision and support of other educational institutions and activities in Dulwich and elsewhere in the United Kingdom. | £44,442,220
<strong>CHELTENHAM COLLEGE AND CHELTENHAM COLLEGE PREPARATORY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [311720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311720)]<br>Provision of education to both boys and girls aged 3-18. | £29,066,000
<strong>ABINGDON SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1071298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071298)]<br>To advance, for the public benefit, the education of children and young people not older than the age of 19 years at Abingdon School and Abingdon Preparatory School or such other school as the Governors may from time to time determine. | £28,920,000
<strong>NEW HALL SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1110286](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110286)]<br>NEW HALL PROVIDES AN EXCELLENT ACADEMIC EDUCATION, IN A CATHOLIC CONTEXT, FOR BOARDING AND DAY CHILDREN AGED 1-18.  EMPHASIS IS PLACED ON COMMUNITY SERVICE. ASSISTANCE WITH FEES IS OFFERED BY MEANS OF BURSARIES. THE OUTSTANDING FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE HISTORIC CHAPEL,  ARE USED FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE LOCAL COMMUNITY. EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES INCLUDE SPONSORSHIP OF A PRIMARY SCHOOL ACADEMY. | £23,719,230
<strong>ST.PETER'S SCHOOL, YORK</strong> [Charity number: [1141329](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141329)]<br>St Peter's School is a day, boarding and preparatory school for boys and girls | £19,286,792
<strong>DRAGON SCHOOL TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [309676](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309676)]<br>The primary object is to advance the education of the public by running schools, in particular the Dragon preparatory school and its pre-prep department Lynams. | £17,888,000
<strong>THE INDEPENDENT EDUCATIONAL ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [270156](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270156)]<br>This charity promotes the advancement of education of children and young persons and to establish schools in any part of the world. The charity now provides education to over 860 pupils from the ages of 2 to 18 through the St James Schools: Nursery School, Prep School and Senior Girls' School situated at Earsby Street, W14 8SH, and Senior Boys' School   at Ashford, Surrey TW15 3DZ. | £16,141,268
<strong>ST MARY'S SCHOOL (CALNE)</strong> [Charity number: [309482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309482)]<br>The provision of boarding and day education for girls aged 11-18 at St Mary's School, Calne and day education for boys and girls at St Margaret's Preparatory School, Calne. In so doing, providing high quality education to students whose families do not otherwise have the financial means to fund independent education. | £15,945,613
<strong>WYCLIFFE COLLEGE (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [311714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311714)]<br>The Charity principally provides education in Stonehouse to boys and girls from the ages of 2 - 18 in its two schools, the Preparatory School, including a Nursery department, and the Senior School; it also runs holiday courses for British and overseas students. | £14,289,476


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FRIENDS OF CASTLEFIELDS SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1041537](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041537)]<br>The Friends of Castlefields School is a fundraising organisation made up of parents who meet roughly once a month to perform fundraising activities throughout the school year to raise money for educational activities & equipment for pupils and staff of Castlefields Primary School. | £2,666
<strong>STRATFORD PREPARATORY SCHOOL PARENTS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1018892](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1018892)]<br>Parents Association raising money to provide for children at the school | £107
<strong>THE CABIN PRE-SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1164579](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164579)]<br>Education of Pre-School children in preparation for Primary School. | £80,226
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF TRINITY OAKS COFE PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1160994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160994)]<br>We undertake activities to advance the education of pupils at Trinity Oaks CofE School, Horley, Surrey. In particular by: developing effective relationships between the staff, parents and others associated with the school; and engaging in activities to raise funds to  provide facilities or equipment which support the school and its pupils. | £4,936
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF HENRY CHICHELE PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1111563](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111563)]<br>TO FUNDRAISE IN ORDER TO PROVIDE & ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES & EQUIPMENT AT THE SCHOOL NOT NORMALLY PROVIDED BY THE LEA. | £1,795
<strong>MARLBOROUGH PRIMARY PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1093375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093375)]<br>MARLBOROUGH PRIMARY PTA IS THE PARENT TEACHERS ASSOCIATION FOR MARLBOROUGH PRIMARY SCHOOL, CARDIFF. IT RAISES MONEY TO ENHANCE THE FACILITIES AND OPPORTUNITIES OPEN TO THE CHILDREN AND TEACHERS WITHIN THE SCHOOL. | £6,503
<strong>SALWAY ASH CE VA PRIMARY SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1117977](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117977)]<br>Raising funds for Salway Ash CE VA PTA. | £3,183
<strong>FRIENDS OF BOURNE WESTFIELD COUNTY PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1048383](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048383)]<br>The Friends of Westfield (The Friends) is a parent based organisation whose sole function is to support Bourne Westfield Primary Academy.We organise social and fundraising events that are inclusive of the whole community these include a Christmas Fair, Summer Fete, Used Uniform Sales, School Calendars, Film nights, Discos and parties for the children. | £2,262
<strong>Meigh Community Pre-School</strong> [Charity number: [NI102832](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102832)]<br>We provide challenging activities where children learn through play and reach their full potential through all six areas of learning which are Personal Social & Emotional, Physical, Language, Maths, The Arts and The World around us. Planning the curriculum is important as it helps the child to develop social skills, such as take turns, cooperate, negotiate and play by the rules. Activities are planned to develop fine motor skills as a child use pencils, paint brushes, scissors and other small materials. It is important to stimulate creativity with art and craft materials also using music for body movements and expand the child’s imagination. Language develops as a child interacts with others, taking part in role play, listening to stories and answering questions. Children learn to solve problems, puzzle pieces fitting together, learn colours, numbers, size and shapes as well as enhancing their memory skills. Outdoor play is also incorporated into planning and the curriculum to develop gross motor skills. We have constant links with the local primary School. Exchanging visits throughout the year and working together on large Educational Projects. We welcome children from all denominations including those with additional needs. We provide Education of children with differing needs and requirements, (whether it is “short-term” needs or more long-term Educational needs) and to provide a welcome and appropriate learning opportunity, for all children. If it is felt that a child’s needs cannot be met in the Pre-School without the support of a one-to-one worker, funding is sought to employ one. We liaison with staff outside the pre-School including therapists, health visitors, psychologists, social workers, paediatricians and portage workers, to meet children’s specific needs. | £50,928
<strong>Heriot Country Kids</strong> [Charity number: [SC044436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044436)]<br>4. The organisation's purposes are to provide the best early years, pre-school and out of school care for the children in the Heriot Community, and surrounding communities.  4.1 Heriot Country Kids - Play and Learn, aims to advance the education and social development of early years and pre-school children with the emphasis on the play experience, so that they take a constructive place in the community and also to advance the education of their parents and other appropriate persons.  4.2 Heriot Country Kids - Extra Time, aims to provide out of school childcare for pupils of Heriot Primary School, and other local schools in order to enable parents and/or guardians to gain or improve their working arrangements.  | £34,327
