# Secondary education `ED107`

Secondary education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) category.

1,523 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.75% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((high|secondary|upper|senior) school|to (eighteen|18|sixteen|16)|-16)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 585 | 0.80%
£10k - £100k | 500 | 0.72%
£100k - £250k | 103 | 0.48%
£250k - £500k | 56 | 0.54%
£500k - £1m | 39 | 0.61%
£1m - £10m | 103 | 1.17%
Over £10m | 69 | 3.23%
Total | 1,455 | 0.76%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,290 | 0.76%
oscr | 150 | 0.61%
ccni | 83 | 1.15%
Total | 1,523 | 0.75%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BRIGHTON COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [307061](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307061)]<br>Provision of a first class independent education for children between the ages of 3 to 18.  Subject to donations and budgetary limits, scholarship awards are made on the basis of the individual's educational potential and bursary awards are made to enable academically able children to benefit where financial hardship might otherwise preclude. | £69,043,246
<strong>WARWICK INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1088057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088057)]<br>The Charity educates boys and girls from ages 3 to 18 in its three independent schools in Warwick. It also rents out its facilities to members of the public through its trading subsidiary Warwick Schools Enterprises Limited. | £47,178,000
<strong>ST PETER'S COLLEGE, RADLEY</strong> [Charity number: [309243](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309243)]<br>Radley College is an independent wholly boarding school for boys aged 13 to 18. The College acts as trustee of various funds used to provide scholarships (max 10% fees) and bursaries (up to full fees), and welcomes applications from those needing financial assistance.  Overall Radley College aims to ensure that it and its pupils benefit both society in general and the local community. | £45,349,000
<strong>STOWE SCHOOL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [310639](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310639)]<br>The principal activity of the company continues to be the provision of education in a boarding and day school for pupils aged 13 to 18. | £41,972,151
<strong>ST PETER'S COLLEGE (OTHERWISE KNOWN AS WESTMINSTER SCHOOL)</strong> [Charity number: [312728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312728)]<br>Westminster School is a public boarding school for young persons. The aims encompass this object and have been extended over a number of years to accommodate day pupils and girls. It now educates children from 7 through to 18 and aims to widen access as much as possible. It also aims to provide excellence in sporting and extra-curricular activities, notably artistic, musical and social skills. | £41,018,000
<strong>LOUGHBOROUGH SCHOOLS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1081765](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081765)]<br>The Charity exists to operate four independent schools providing for pupils aged from 3 to 18. The aim is to attain the highest academic levels and ensure an extra-curricular programme which will develope life long interests and a desire to contribute to the community. | £36,551,000
<strong>LATYMER FOUNDATION AT HAMMERSMITH</strong> [Charity number: [312714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312714)]<br>The charity runs two schools providing an opportunity for able pupils from all walks of life to develop their talents to the full. Pupils are selected as far as possible on the basis of ability without regard to financial means. Latymer Upper School is an active participant in the local community particularly through community links and partnership schools. | £36,066,235
<strong>SHREWSBURY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [528413](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-528413)]<br>The provision of education to pupils between the ages of 4 to 18. | £35,840,881
<strong>HURSTPIERPOINT COLLEGE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1076498](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076498)]<br>Independent Day and Boarding School for children aged from 4 to 18 | £34,036,000
<strong>OAKHAM SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1131425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131425)]<br>The Charity principally provides education in Oakham to boys and girls from the ages of 10 to 18. Many of these pupils come from the immediate vicinity of the county of Rutland, and others come from elsewhere in the UK, as well as overseas. The School's facilities are put to good educational use during holiday periods, with activities including language schools, sporting events and other courses. | £33,674,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WYCOMBE HIGH SCHOOL PRIZE FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1048979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048979)]<br>Awards grants to students for academic and personal achievements | £2,621
<strong>THE SWEETPEA CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1122815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122815)]<br>To relieve sickness and preserve and protect the good health of children up to 18 yrs of age. Particularly, but not exclusively, those who are, or may suffer from a congenital illness, or who are in need of medical care living in the United Kingdom. | £21,777
<strong>KEY TO THE FUTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1137547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137547)]<br>Grantmaking to support education in Sudan, and in particular the Grace Secondary School. | £122
<strong>Richmond's Hope</strong> [Charity number: [SC036720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036720)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 To advance the health and well-being of bereaved children and young people (aged 4 to 18 years) and their families by providing advice and support which helps them to understand  the effects of mourning on their lives.   4.2 To advance the education of professionals and external organisations working in the field of child bereavement through provision of training and advice to facilitate their work in bereavement support.   4.3 To relieve the needs of bereaved children and young people (aged 4 – 18 years) by supporting them as they explore and express their grief through the provision of specialist therapeutic play.   4.4 To provide a high-quality service, based on clinical reflection, which is capable of advancing knowledge and understanding in the field of child bereavement.   4.5 In furtherance of these purposes, they will be achieved through working in collaboration with Richmond Craigmillar Parish Church of Scotland, a registered Scottish Charity (SC009035) (the Founding Body) providing a community-based bereavement support on an ecumenical and interfaith basis for all faiths and none.   | £389,911
<strong>Greenisland Football Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI102938](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102938)]<br>Greenisland Football Club is a community orientated charity;the charity have a Club house which is a community hub and where the majority of our activities take place. The charity offers football activities for approximately 400 users on a weekly basis which take place either on grass pitches or the floodlit 3G surfaces at our facility.We also have three senior teams who are fall under the umbrella of Greenisland FC.The core of our participants would come from Greenisland, Carrickfergus, Newtownabbey and the immediate surrounding areas. Importantly the Club operates 'an open policy' and has a strong track record in delivering programmes and activities in this area. The Club have 4- children registered who take part in our Munchkin’s Programme for 5-7 year olds boys and girls, who are taught fundamental movements and get to enjoy playing soccer. Greenisland FC operate multiple non competitive Small Sided Games Squads at ages 7 to 11 and have teams at ages 12 to 18 taking part in youth leagues throughout Northern Ireland. All train weekly. The Club have more than 90 volunteers who are passionate about helping out and give up their free time to sustain our programmes and activities. Greenisland hold a number of seasonal activities such as summer schemes, Halloween and Easter camps, as well as run a number of intervention programmes throughout the year for older teenagers. These interventions have included day trips, midnight soccer programmes or cross community football tournaments. In advance of these programmes we ensure that the local community are made aware through the charities social media outlets. Greenisland FC’s facilities are used by a number of groups who are vital to community development such as after schools groups, ladies fitness classes and arts groups.The space is also used for meeting space and for workshop facilitation. | £378,427
<strong>THE ROSSITER SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [514609](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-514609)]<br>Assists pupils from Beverley High School with individual grants for art and culture. | £596
<strong>Dundrum Cross Community Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI101834](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101834)]<br>The organisation is a voluntary organisation managed by an elected group of parents on a yearly basis. The main purpose is to offer pre-school education in the local community for children in their final pre-school year. Additionally the playgroup offers early years education and care two afternoons per week to young children from the local community the year before their final pre-school year. The playgroup is managed on daily basis by a qualified playgroup leader (trained to Level 5 as required by the Department of Education and Learning) along with a deputy and playgroup assistant all qualified to Level 3. The playgroup also offers training experiences to the local college in Downpatrick BTEC Level 3 students and other students who attend the college. Work experience opportunities are also available to local high school children. The playgroup has formed links with the local primary schools in the nearby communities. The staff adhere to the local safeguarding practices, Social Services inspections and inspections by ETI working closely with Early years the Organisation for Young Children to promote best practice. The playgroup offers high quality activities and age appropriate play experiences to promote young children's learning in all areas of their development in line with the Pre-School Curricular Guidance. The playgroup actively encourages the involvement of parents to share in their children's learning by encouraging them to take on roles within the Management Committee, participating in fund raising activities and participating on outings with their child. Parents are invited to apply for Access NI clearance and Vetting by social services to work within the room on projects with the children. The playgroup promotes itself to be part of the local community and work with other local groups, schools and playgroups to promote local interests of the parents and children and work in partnerships across all communities. | £64,958
<strong>SUPPLEMENTARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1041216](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041216)]<br>The charity provides childcare, education and training for young children  aged 4-16. It caters for disabled children. It helps to alleviate poverty in deprived areas in Southwark and Greater London in general. It provides activities such as homework support, cooking, drama, water games, arts and sports. | £144,045
<strong>ST JOHN'S COLLEGE, SOUTHSEA</strong> [Charity number: [1162915](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162915)]<br>Hugh Jesseman and Claire Howell were appointed as Joint Liquidators of the Company on 26 August 2022. The charity was an independent school, providing both a day and boarding education for boys and girls aged 2 to 18. | £5,801,207
<strong>Ukrainian St Margaret's Saturday School</strong> [Charity number: [SC053287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053287)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are: The SCIO shall be established for charitable purposes only and the objects for which the SCIO is established shall be to advance both education and culture by supporting the development of the Ukrainian language and culture in Scotland by (a) educating children, young people from 5 to 18 in the Ukrainian language and culture. (b) recruiting, training and managing volunteers and paid staff for the purposes of education of children and young people.  (c) providing facilities for the purposes of education and meeting. and (d) provide learning and development opportunities through the Ukrainian language and English language. and national and regional challenges and adversity. | 
