# Schools `ED106`

Schools is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) category.

30,977 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 15.39% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(schools?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 14,814 | 17.63%
£10k - £100k | 9,244 | 14.39%
£100k - £250k | 2,994 | 16.02%
£250k - £500k | 951 | 10.80%
£500k - £1m | 488 | 8.78%
£1m - £10m | 976 | 12.73%
Over £10m | 302 | 17.41%
Total | 29,769 | 15.61%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 27,842 | 16.48%
oscr | 1,814 | 7.13%
ccni | 1,321 | 19.20%
Total | 30,977 | 15.39%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS FOUNDATION LTD</strong> [Charity number: [313999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313999)]<br>THE CHARITABLE GROUP PROVIDES EDUCATION THROUGH THE OPERATION OF INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS AND THROUGH THE OPERATION OF ACADEMIES ON BEHALF OF THE DEPARTMENT FOR EDUCATION AND THE EDUCATION FUNDING AGENCY | £485,698,000
<strong>THE GIRLS' DAY SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [306983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306983)]<br>To remain at the forefront of education, extend excellence and innovation in dynamic educationalsettings and maintain our leadership in the education of young people, principally women. | £261,280,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £237,788,000
<strong>LIVERPOOL SCHOOL OF TROPICAL MEDICINE</strong> [Charity number: [222655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222655)]<br>Research into Tropical Diseases, Education, Training and Technical Assistance. | £210,339,000
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF WALES:TRINITY SAINT DAVID</strong> [Charity number: [1149535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149535)]<br>Scholarship and a commitment to the quality of the learning experience are central to the mission of the UoW: Trinity Saint David. Through academic programmes delivered on campus and in the workplace, and the range of activities delivered in schools and community venues, existing initiatives will be built upon to widen access to HE and encourage participation from under-represented groups. | £173,872,000
<strong>AQA EDUCATION</strong> [Charity number: [1073334](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073334)]<br>The primary purpose of AQA is to advance education for the benefit of the public by the setting, marking and administration of public examinations such as GCSE, A levels and other qualifications. The organisation provides qualifications for UK schools and colleges in order to equip learners with the knowledge and skills they require for the future. | £135,845,844
<strong>THE UNITED CHURCH SCHOOLS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1016538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016538)]<br>The provision of a liberal, practical and general education, which includes religious instruction in the doctrine and duties of Christianity, through the operation of independent schools. | £121,961,000
<strong>METHODIST INDEPENDENT SCHOOLS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1142794](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142794)]<br>The Methodist Church is engaged in education as part of its Christian mission in the world.  Its schools will seek to extend the Methodist ethos and character and contribute to diversity in education. | £97,706,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £95,457,000
<strong>THE KYNGE'S COLLEGE OF OUR LADYE OF ETON BESYDE WINDESORE</strong> [Charity number: [1139086](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139086)]<br>Eton College was founded by Henry VI in 1440. Today it is an independent boys' boarding school whose charitable purpose is the advancement of education by the provision, support and conduct of a school and ancillary or incidental educational activities for the benefit of students and/or the wider community; and the preservation and maintenance of the College's historic buildings and Collections. | £84,951,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OLD BUDONIAN ASSOCIATION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1194661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194661)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUPILS AT KING'S COLLEGE & BUDO JUNIOR SCHOOLS ("THE SCHOOLS") IN KAMPALA UGANDA IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES THINK FIT, INCLUDING BY AWARDING TO PUPILS AT THE SCHOOL SCHOLARSHIPS, BURSARIES, ASSISTED PLACES, MAINTENANCE ALLOWANCES OR GRANTS ON THE BASIS OF FINANCIAL NEED TO ENABLE THEM TO ATTEND THE SCHOOL AND TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUPILS AT THE SCHOOL BY PROVIDING AND ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR EDUCATION AT THE SCHOOL. | 
<strong>Tushinde Children's Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041330)]<br>(a) within Nairobi, to provide schooling and to relieve poverty principally through: the provision of schooling for slum and street children; shelter for destitute children; economic support for parents and carers who are living in extreme poverty in order that their dependent school - aged children can complete their schooling without their being taken into residential care and support for parents and carers who are living in extreme poverty and have experienced interruptions to their schooling , in order that they may complete their foundation learning; (b To) work in partnership with local non governmental organisations and other agencies in order to deliver these services | £159,349
<strong>THE SOCIETY OF ST STEPHEN'S HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1177459](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177459)]<br>St Stephen's House is an Anglican Theological College and Permanent Private Hall of the University of Oxford offering formation, education and training for a variety of qualifications and ministries.  St Stephen's House also hosts summer school and seminars and acts as a centre for sabbaticals and retreats.  Its grade I listed church is also let as a venue for concerts and other musical events. | £1,018,570
<strong>LOWTON ENDOWED SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [505392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-505392)]<br>This charity has no 'activities' as such. It was created to carry funds generated from the sale of school/church - owned land, many years ago. The income is used by the school governors, along with other funds raised/donated to discharge the financial obligations of the governors - mainly annual insurance premiums and some building repair costs. | £17
<strong>ST ANNES HEBREW CONGREGATION</strong> [Charity number: [1161187](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161187)]<br>a) Religious services on weekdays, Sabbaths, and Holy days;b) Pastoral services;c) Educational facilities;d) Facilities for burial of the dead;e) Facilities for marriages;f) Communal social events as appropriate;g) Facilities offered for private social events;h) Support for those in need, where appropriate, through other charitable bodiesi) Interfaith activitiesj) School visits | £94,471
<strong>ROBERT PIGGOTT PRIMARY SCHOOL PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1112389](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112389)]<br>To raise money to enhance the learning environment and facilities for the children of the school | £15,592
<strong>WORTH PARENT TEACHER FRIENDS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1028555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1028555)]<br>Raise money by such activities as small school fetes and parties. | £650
<strong>SADCO FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [SC050213](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050213)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 The prevention and relief of poverty by helping any suffering person to gain access to funds and grants or through the provision of financial assistance by ourselves  4.2 The advancement of citizenship or community development by holding classes, events and seminars structured to increase engagement and to help empower communities to overcome social, economic, and environmental challenges.  4.3 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended by running various sports classes including but not limited to football, basketball, badminton, cricket, and yoga.  4.4 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by providing funds for the reconstruction of schools, places of worship and homes, by providing basic food provisions for the poor and those affected by natural disasters or war and the establishment of medical and rehabilitation clinics for victims of war, oppression and drug abuse.  | £13,207
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF ELEANOR SMITH SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [281474](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281474)]<br>To support Children & young people with Social Emotional and Behavioural difficulties. | 
<strong>MAIDEN ERLEGH PRE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1025503](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1025503)]<br>Pre-school education. | £105,685
