# University of the Third Age `ED109`

University of the Third Age is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) category.

839 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.42% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(U\.?3\.?A|third age)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 472 | 0.57%
£10k - £100k | 347 | 0.53%
£100k - £250k | 6 | 0.03%
£250k - £500k | 4 | 0.04%
£1m - £10m | 1 | 0.01%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 830 | 0.43%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 794 | 0.47%
ccni | 25 | 0.35%
oscr | 20 | 0.08%
Total | 839 | 0.42%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE THIRD AGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [288007](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288007)]<br>The Third Age Trust is the national representative body for The University of The Third Age movement in the UK providing a wide range of support services to existing U3As. In addition it helps to develop new U3As and to raise the profile and increase awareness of the movement throughout the UK. | £2,897,877
<strong>U3A IN LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [288434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288434)]<br>Provision of educational and leisure activities for retired and semi-retired men and women. | £430,000
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF THE THIRD AGE IN CAMBRIDGE (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1180769](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180769)]<br>Provides educational and social activities to those no longer in full-time employment. | £309,529
<strong>BEAUFORT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [800843](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-800843)]<br>GENERAL COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING PRE-SCHOOL; AFTER SCHOOL CLUBS; ALL DAY CARE FACILITIES, BINGO, KARATE, TAI CHI, BALLROOM, LATIN, DISCO DANCING, BALLET & TAP DANCING, VARIOUS KEEP FIT CLASSES, SLIMMING CLASSES, UNIVERSITY OF THIRD AGE GROUP PLUS MANY MORE. | £267,622
<strong>THE QUAY THEATRE AT SUDBURY</strong> [Charity number: [1099868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099868)]<br>PROVISION OF THEATRE FACILITIES FOR ART & DRAMA EVENTS USING BOTH PROFESSIONAL COMPANIES AND LOCAL DRAMA CLUBS. SCREENING OF FILMS ETC. PROVISON OF DRAMA CLASSES AND SUMMER SCHOOLS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR USE OF LOCAL CLUBS AND INDIVIDUALS COVERING VARIOUS EVENTS FROM DANCE CLASSES, PILATES, U3A ACTIVITIES AND REHEARSAL SPACE FOR LOCAL DRAMA SOCIETY. BAR & REFRESHMENTS | £260,230
<strong>THE THIRD AGE PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1108521](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108521)]<br>The objects of the Charity is to provide social welfare, education and leisure services particularly for adults over 50 years of age living in the West Euston Area of the London Borough of Camden.The Trustees carry out the objects of the Charity through the provision of a wide range of support services and activities to improve the conditions of life of older people. | £244,469
<strong>SHOREHAM COMMUNITY TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1070530](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070530)]<br>We hire rooms for all kinds of uses: Adult Education, U3A, exercise classes, art & theatre classes as well as yoga, karate, pilates, weight watchers, blood donations, childrens activities, parties, wedding receptions etc. We also have monthly and ad hoc dances. weekly markets & monthly Art & Craft Fairs. | £215,650
<strong>SOUTHPORT U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1164448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164448)]<br>The charitable purpose of the u3a is the advancement of education and, in particular,the education of older people and those who have retired from full time work, by all means' including associated activities conducive to learning and personal development | £171,851
<strong>U3a Foyle</strong> [Charity number: [NI100018](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100018)]<br>U3A Foyle is a self-help organisation for retired people. We provide a full Active Ageing programme of educational courses, recreational and sporting activities and social events which aim to keep men and women healthy, active, involved and included in their later years. The Active Ageing & Living programme is offered throughout the year, Monday to Friday. Our ethos is based on the delivery of shared and peer learning. We have high participation levels with over 700 members partaking in over 75 different classes, courses and activities. Members play the major role in administration and operation of the organisation with over 100 volunteers serving on the Board, various committees and hosting the roles necessary to deliver the programme effectively. Members hail from a variety of social, religious and socio-economic backgrounds. We continue to reach out to older people in all parts of the community and environs who are isolated and disadvantaged to include them in activities whilst enhancing their overall mental health and well being. The planning and delivery of the programmes is member-led ensuring all activities are relevant and pertinent to the group. Our mission is to provide a programme of educational, recreational, and social activities in a safe and friendly environment to enable men and women to enjoy active living in their later years. | £149,752
<strong>LEIGH MINERS WELFARE INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [521139](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521139)]<br>Welfare Club hosting community activities such as Bingo, Bowling, U3A. A wide range of  Community groups use our facilities such as Special Guardians, JIGSAW, British Heart Foundation and we hire function rooms out for Keep Fit, Parties, Meetings etc.  We have a Rugby Section, Bowling Section, Darts & Doms and an Entertainment section for our members. | £134,721


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHESHUNT UNIVERSITY OF THE THIRD AGE</strong> [Charity number: [1150779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150779)]<br>Within Cheshunt & it's surroundings the advancement of education & in particular that of older people retired from full time work by all means including associated activities conducive to learning & development.The provision of facilities for leisure time & recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the above persons in the interest of their social welfare. | £23,410
<strong>ARUN WEST UNIVERSITY OF THE THIRD AGE</strong> [Charity number: [1155481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155481)]<br>Education and Personal Development for People who are retired or no longer in full-time employment | £546
<strong>DEWSBURY AND DISTRICT THIRD AGE</strong> [Charity number: [518273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-518273)]<br>The Third Age provides friendly informal classes to the public.  This year there have been 34 classes held in the Dewsbury District.  Since the classes are held during the day most of the members are retired or part time workers. | £17,839
<strong>OLDHAM AND DISTRICT U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1164357](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164357)]<br>The U3A is self funded, self managed organisation to promote educational creative and leisure opportunities for anybody not in full time employment. The aim being that we learn together ad teach each other. Oldham & District U3A was launched in the autumn of 2009 and now has over 600 members and an ever increasing list of interest groups | £33,448
<strong>WHITLEY BAY U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1095331](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095331)]<br>1 The advancement of education and,in particular, the education of older people and those who are retired from full time work by all means, including associated activities conducive to learning and personal development2 The provision of facilities for leisure and recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the above persons in the interests of social welfare. | £7,146
<strong>SHERBURN AND VILLAGES U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1161249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161249)]<br>Self funded , self help group for retired and semi retired people from all walks of life, giving them a chance to either take up new interests or further their current hobbies and interests | £10,085
<strong>BRIGHOUSE THIRD AGE GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1009784](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1009784)]<br>We aim to provide the means for local people over 50 yrs. to pursue their interest in structured groups. We rent appropriate space, provide equipment, produce a time-table and recruit class leaders in return for an annual membership fee and class fee, classes include sports, languages, arts, handicrafts, and games. We hold monthly forums with a speaker, monthly luncheon club & walking group. | £11,087
<strong>BISHOP'S STORTFORD UNIVERSITY OF THE THIRD AGE</strong> [Charity number: [1132055](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132055)]<br>The activities of Bishop's Stortford U3A are based on the objects of the U3A which are to advance the education and physical well-being of those people not in full time employment, who are in their third age, residing in Bishop's Stortfod and surrounding locality | £27,235
<strong>CARTERTON U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1188573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188573)]<br>The purpose of Carterton U3A is the advancement of education for those retired from full time work together with socialisation.  This is achieved by having meetings with a speaker invited and groups that meet regularly to discuss and learn shared interests.The charity is located in Carterton Oxfordshire but also serves surrounding areas. | £16,348
<strong>North West Archaeological & Historical Society</strong> [Charity number: [NI102353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102353)]<br>The Society is a member of the Federation for Ulster Local Studies and we've been associated with events organised by Derry City Council and other individual Historical Societies. That has been either through meeting with the Societies or in providing help when they have paid visits to the city. We have been instrumental in providing such things as providing tour guides, for example. Society members have also been involved with providing lectures on diverse topics, associated with the history of the North-west. The Society has also been to the fore in media circles, contributing written articles to various magazines and newspapers, as well as contributing to broadcasts. The Society has also helped provide a leading article for the FULS Magazine, “Due North” on the Spanish Armada ship, the La Trinidad Valencera. We have been playing a role of taking Local History to other interested bodies. in our "Outreach " Programme. Members have been working with the WELB at the Central Library in beginning to create some new Exhibitions for the city. We have worked with the Built Heritage at Hill Street in Belfast to trawl their files for Information, Graphic Material and Knowledge from their staff to help put the Exhibitions together. We've also been working, through Oral History, with groups from Creggan, and providing speakers for Oral History Seminars. We have also been involved by providing speakers for a series of Lectures on Local History to Classes at the U3A in Londonderry, and to Local History Societies across all of Ireland. Society Members have also been involved acting as Guides to diverse groups from both the city and further afield. Association with ALLY FOYLE (Active Living in Later Years) has been an ‘On- going’ project for the Society, contributing to lectures on various topics to groups near and far. The society organizes a series of 9 monthly lectures each year for members and the general public. | 
