# Student union `ED108`

Student union is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) category.

133 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(student'?s?'? union|student societ(y|ies)|guild of students)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 11 | 0.01%
£10k - £100k | 2 | 0.00%
£100k - £250k | 9 | 0.05%
£250k - £500k | 12 | 0.14%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.31%
£1m - £10m | 72 | 0.94%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 123 | 0.06%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 127 | 0.08%
oscr | 4 | 0.02%
ccni | 2 | 0.03%
Total | 133 | 0.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KING'S COLLEGE LONDON STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1136729](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136729)]<br>Providing sporting, social, cultural and recreational opportunities and facilities for students of King's College London;Advancing the welfare and physical and mental well being of students;Providing representation, advice and assistance to students on matters affecting their welfare and interests as students;Promoting and encouraging contact and co-operation between students | £8,947,553
<strong>LOUGHBOROUGH STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1183625](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183625)]<br>Details of the policies, objectives and activities of Loughborough Students Union are outlined in the Trustees Report included in the year end Financial Statements. These statements are uploaded as a PDF to the charity Commission website. | £8,745,325
<strong>THE UNIVERSITY OF SHEFFIELD UNION OF STUDENTS</strong> [Charity number: [1147855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147855)]<br>A Students' Union representing and supporting students at the University of Sheffield. | £6,580,604
<strong>THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTTINGHAM STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1136986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136986)]<br>Promoting the interests and welfare of students during their course of study and representing, supporting and advising members; Being the recognised representative channel between students and the University of Nottingham and any other external bodies and providing social, cultural, sporting and recreational activities and for discussions and debate for the personal development of its members. | £6,425,696
<strong>LANCASTER UNIVERSITY STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1172269](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172269)]<br>The activities include (not exhaustive):* Education & Support : promoting the interests and welfare of students at LU and representing, supporting and advising students* Provides social , cultural, sporting and recreational activities e.g. clubs & societies, volunteering, campus events* Provides forums for discussions and debates for personal development of students | £5,984,213
<strong>CARDIFF UNIVERSITY STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1137163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137163)]<br>Promoting the interests and welfare of students at Cardiff University during their study and representing, supporting and advising students.Being the recognised representative channel between students and Cardiff University and other bodies.Providing social, cultural, sporting and recreational activities and forums for discussions and debate for the personal development of its students. | £5,967,127
<strong>WARWICK STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1136894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136894)]<br>The objects are the advancement of education of students at the University of Warwick by-promoting their interests & welfare, representing, supporting & advising -being the recognised representative of Students to the University & other external bodies -providing social, cultural, sporting & recreational activities & forums for discussions & debate for their personal development | £5,470,223
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF ESSEX STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1140278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140278)]<br>Taking care of the educational and social aspects of students life at the University of Essex. Working with local and regional groups to promote the excellent volunteering work that students carry out. encouraging health and well being through the coordination of a number of sporting and recreational activities. | £5,082,190
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF BIRMINGHAM GUILD OF STUDENTS</strong> [Charity number: [1137548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137548)]<br>We operate on democratic principles and students are represented by our Members Democratic Process. We provide services such as Student Advice; Jobs, Skills and Volunteering; Student Groups; Hall Reps; Student Voice; Mentor Scheme; Community Wardens; Venues and marketing services. We campaign on student related local, national and international issues and also support work of the NUS. | £4,404,267
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF LINCOLN STUDENTS UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1138187](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138187)]<br>The Charity supports over 17500 students and has Membership Services which are funded by a grant from the University of Lincoln (UoL) and surplus from it's Commercial Services arms. It works in partnership with UoL and other stakeholders for the benefit of it's members. The Charity provides Academic representation, Advice, Welfare services, Sports & Societies & volunteering/employability services. | £4,229,251


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF SUNDERLAND STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1148212](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148212)]<br>Educational Support Activities, Fundraising, activitites of member organisations, management of entertainment venue, retail of food, beverages, stationery, sundry items. | £1,448,453
<strong>SOUTHAMPTON FILM THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [276825](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276825)]<br>In association with the Union Films of Southampton University Students Union, The Phoenix (Southampton Film Theatre) periodically shows a wide range of films to subscribing members of the general public and members of Union Films. Its aims are to provide entertainment, to encourage an appreciation of the medium of film and to promote the use of film as a record of contemporary life. | £9
<strong>Ulster University Students' Union</strong> [Charity number: [NI107053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107053)]<br>The Students' Union represents students on the issues affecting them, through a range of means such as academic representation, volunteering, campaigning, lobbying and social engagement. Seven student officers are elected annually by the student body to represent their interests and they do this by attending University meetings to ensure that the student voice is heard. The Students' Union also works with local organizations, national Students' Unions, local councils, government and the communities where the campuses are based to further the interests of students. | £2,359,815
<strong>GREY COLLEGE JUNIOR COMMON ROOM</strong> [Charity number: [1142887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142887)]<br>GREY COLLEGE JUNIOR COMMON ROOM IS A STUDENTS' UNION WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE EDUCATION ACT 1994. THE UNION'S OBJECTS ARE THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION OF STUDENTS AT GREY COLLEGE FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT. | £135,675
<strong>EDGE HILL STUDENTS' UNION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1143764](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143764)]<br>EHSU exists to represent Edge Hill University students effectively as well as provide cultural, social and sporting opportunities to help our students develop personal and life skills. | £1,180,952
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF HUDDERSFIELD STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1137401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137401)]<br>The Unions objectives are the advancement of students at University by: Promoting interests and welfare of students during their course of study and representing, supporting and advising students; Being the recognised representative channel between students, the University and other external bodies; Providing social, cultural, sporting, recreational activities and forums for discussions and debate | £1,766,126
<strong>DE MONTFORT UNIVERSITY STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1138587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138587)]<br>DSU aims are to advance the education of the students of DMU for the public benefit by:Providing representation, advice and assistance Providing sporting, social, cultural and recreational opportunities and facilities Promoting and encouraging contact and co-operation between students;Advancing the welfare and physical and mental wellbeing of students; | £1,665,688
<strong>Mudra Academy Of Performing Arts Uk</strong> [Charity number: [NI100311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100311)]<br>1. The South Asian and Bengali New Year was celebrated in: i) Morton Community Hall in April 2010, attended by more than 100 people. ii) Olympia Community Center in April 2011, attended by 200 people. iii) St. Brides Hall in April 2012, attended by 350 people. iv) Agape Centre in April 2013, attended by 400 people. v) St. Brides Hall in April 2014, attended by 400 people. 2. Durga Puja and Dusshera Festival was celebrated in: i) Morton Community Hall in October 2010, attended by 400 people over 3 days. ii) Olympia Community Center in October 2011, attended by 500 people over 4 days. iii) Olympia Community Center in October 2012, attended by 500 people over 4 days. iv) Olympia Community Center in October 2013, attended by 700 people over 4 days. 3. Festival of Lights (Diwali) celebration in Student Union Queens University in November 2010, 2011, 2012. In each year it was attended by more than 300 people. In November 2013, 100 people attended in Windsor Tennis Club. 4. Fund raising charities were organised for Action Cancer in 2013, 2014,2015,2016 | £3,687
<strong>SHEFFIELD HALLAM UNIVERSITY STUDENTS' UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1141925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141925)]<br>Core Values - Passionate about students, proud and bold; open minded; supportive Strategic Themes - Empower the voice of students; Communicate, connect and engage with our students; Build beneficial partnerships for our students; Innovate, develop and grow our potential. | £2,728,354
<strong>UNIVERSITY OF PORTSMOUTH STUDENTS UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1136115](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136115)]<br>The advancement of education of students at the University of Portsmouth for the public benefit | £1,447,232
