# Adult education `ED101`

Adult education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) category.

385 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(adult (learning|education)|lifelong learning)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 64 | 0.09%
£10k - £100k | 139 | 0.20%
£100k - £250k | 48 | 0.22%
£250k - £500k | 43 | 0.40%
£500k - £1m | 27 | 0.40%
£1m - £10m | 40 | 0.44%
Over £10m | 11 | 0.51%
Total | 372 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 281 | 0.16%
oscr | 77 | 0.31%
ccni | 27 | 0.38%
Total | 385 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MACINTYRE CARE</strong> [Charity number: [250840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250840)]<br>MacIntyre provides services for adults and children with learning disabilities. These services include schools, colleges, adult learning centres, registered care homes, supported living and other individual support. | £69,282,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £41,387,000
<strong>TRINITY LABAN CONSERVATOIRE OF MUSIC AND DANCE</strong> [Charity number: [309998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309998)]<br>Specialist, practice-based higher education to equip students for successful careers as performers, composers and choreographers in the fields of music and contemporary dance.Lifelong learning opportunities in dance and music.Outreach and community-based projects.Promotion of research and scholarship to advance the art forms of music and dance.Provision of music and dance performances. | £28,454,852
<strong>Leisure & Culture Dundee</strong> [Charity number: [SC042421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042421)]<br>To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. To advance public participation in sport. To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. To advance education. To advance health. To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Dundee City Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Dundee) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes,  and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and delivery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people. | £19,052,014
<strong>THE MARINE SOCIETY AND SEA CADETS</strong> [Charity number: [313013](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313013)]<br>Promoting Sea Cadet activity. Supporting the maritime industry.  Franchisor and primary support for Sea Cadet units ? local groups constituted as separately registered charities.Supporting the maritime industry through the Marine Society, allowing seafarers access to lifelong learning opportunities, a ships? library service, and the provision of financial support for professional advancement. | £18,842,000
<strong>ACTIVE LUTON</strong> [Charity number: [1111804](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111804)]<br>Operation of sports facilities, development of sport in the community and assisting with the delivery of sport as part of the school curriculum. Also promoting the value of sport & physical activity in addressing the wider agendas of health improvement, lifelong learning & community well-being.Operates Library services. | £15,212,505
<strong>AUTISM PLUS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [518591](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-518591)]<br>The charity provides Residential and Supported Living services for adults with autism and other disabilities.  Other key associated services includes Adult Learning, Employment and Training Programs, and Social Enterprises. | £13,321,701
<strong>East Dunbartonshire Leisure and Culture Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041942)]<br>To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. To advance public participation in sport. To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. To advance education. To advance health. To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities).To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes.through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by East Dunbartonshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of East Dunbartonshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and delivery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people | £13,072,746
<strong>Camphill Rudolf Steiner Schools Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC015588](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015588)]<br>2.1 The Company will promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes and activities as part of the international Camphill Movement by aiming to create a community in which children and adults, many with learning disabilities, can live, learn and work with others in healthy social relationships based on mutual care and respect, and in doing so creating an inclusive, lifelong learning culture with an integrated approach to health, education and care.  2.2 In promoting, advancing and furthering Charitable Purposes and activities as detailed in article 2.1 the Company seeks to further develop a living and working community based on equality of rights and opportunities, collaboration, freedom and empowering respectful relationships. The Company has an active engagement with the wider society, facilitating a mutually beneficial flow of information and learning.  2.3 For the purposes of the Charities Act the following Charitable Purposes are relevant and for the purposes of the Charities Act are the Charitable Purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the Charities Act:- 2.3.1 the advancement of education. 2.3.2 the advancement of citizenship or community development 2.3.3 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the condition for the persons from whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and 2.3.4 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement  2.4 For the purposes of the Taxes Acts the provisions set out in 2.1 to 2.3 inclusive shall be read together to ensure the Charitable Purposes of the Company are compliant with the Taxes Act. | £12,116,177
<strong>North Ayrshire Leisure Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC029780](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029780)]<br>The company is established for Charitable Purposes only. This clause shall be interpreted as if it incorporated an overriding qualification limiting the powers of the company such that any activity which would otherwise be permitted by the terms of this clause may be carried on only if that activity can be regarded as having a Charitable Purpose. Subject to the foregoing overriding qualification the company's objects are: 3.1 to advance public participation in sport. 3.2 to provide or assist in the provision of facilities for, or activities relating to, recreation or other leisure time occupation. 3.3 to advance the arts, heritage, culture or science. and 3.4 to enhance lifelong learning opportunities for individuals and community groups, in each case such services being provided in the interests of improving social welfare and community wellbeing for the benefit of, and in relation to the general public in, the North Ayrshire area (including the communities of the North Ayrshire area and visitors to that area) save that special facilities may be provided for persons who by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disability, poverty or social or economic circumstances have need of special facilities, and in each case through any appropriate means, and to do all such other things as may seem incidental or conducive to the pursuit of the foregoing objects and the exercise of the powers of the company (whether express or implied). | £10,712,767


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Eglinton Community</strong> [Charity number: [NI107134](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107134)]<br>To carry out its purposes Eglinton Community Limited has provided, maintains and manages Eglinton Community Centre as a cross community venue available for use by anyone in the local community. Eglinton Community Limited provides a wide range of activities at Eglinton Community Centre - Advice, sensory support, disability support, educational classes, family support, junior sports clubs, dance, music, art, drama, physical activities, Healthy Ageing classes, youth group. Advice, sensory support and adult education services are provided free to ensure benefit to those with low incomes and carry out our purpose of promoting the benefit of all local inhabitants regardless of income. | £83,288
<strong>THE KINGSWAY HALL MANAGEMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1071812](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071812)]<br>The principle activities of the charity include the provision of a well used community hall, two days of over 50s daycare, a youth team and youth centre providing support and positive diversions to young people in the area, and adult education opportunities in partnership with local colleges. | 
<strong>Clydesdale Community Activities Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC040866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040866)]<br>2.1   To provide a recreational facility for adults within the community which supports individuals and groups who have higher support needs in an environment that encourages and creates lifelong learning opportunities without distinction of race, religion, sex, sexuality, political or other opinions. 2.2   To promote and organise activities, both social and educational, which enhance the quality of life of the members and bring together in council, representatives of the statutory authorities and other voluntary organisations engaged in the furtherance of the above purposes. 2.3    To encourage the goodwill and involvement of the wider community and furtherance and social cohesion within the community. | £26,661
<strong>EUROPEAN ACADEMY OF OPTOMETRY AND OPTICS</strong> [Charity number: [1134105](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134105)]<br>The Academy is a young organisation that is working to provide a much needed voice to help advance the profession, develop the scientific knowledge base and support and promote lifelong learning for optometrists, opticians, vision scientists and all those involved in eye health care across Europe. | £72,333
<strong>LATIN AMERICAN HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1127253](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127253)]<br>Bilingual nursery (English /Spanish)Free Legal and Social  Welfare AdviceSpecialist Immigration Advice (has included  EUSS Applications).Adult Learning Centre with Skills for life and work, digital inclusion and English courses.Spanish Saturday school for children,Community and Cultural EventsCommunity Centre | £485,815
<strong>Craigneuk Lifelong Learning Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC029738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029738)]<br>2. Objects The objects of the Association will be to advance education for the benefit of the inhabitants of Craigneuk, without distinction of sex or of political, religious or other opinions, through the promotion of adult education.  In furtherance thereof but not otherwise the Association shall seek:  •To provide a range of adult learning opportunities for adults of sixteen years and above wishing to return to further education or employment.  •To allow adults to self-develop through vocational and non vocational courses encouraging independent learning to improve confidence and build self-esteem.  •To establish a network of links between agencies and organisations such as employers,    further education colleges, social work departments, psychological services, Community Learning and Development and local community projects. 	 •To promote health education within the community by encouraging and promoting healthy lifestyles, outdoor activities and discussion groups.  •To promote volunteering within the community encouraging the community to share skills. | £70,613
<strong>Fernaig Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC033722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033722)]<br>1	The organisation’s purposes are: (a) Environment: To manage community land and conserve, protect and improve the natural environment of Fernaig, Achmore, Stromeferry and surrounds for the benefit of nature itself, the local community and the public at large.  (b) Sustainable Development: To promote sustainable development in the area compatible with the above object.  (c) Education: To advance education, training, lifelong learning and skills development through the creation of, and support for education and training infrastructure and activities.  (d) Recreation: To improve the quality of life and contribute to the physical, mental and social health of residents and visitors through the provision of recreation facilities, the organisation of recreational activities and other leisure time activity, and promoting responsible access.  	(e) Advancement of Community Development: To promote the 	advancement of community development in the area as defined in the 	section (7)2, Charities and Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 by 	providing opportunities for individuals and groups to actively 	participate in and identify projects that would benefit the community. | £4,952
<strong>RUSKIN COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [309701](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309701)]<br>Providing adult education, including long courses and short courses.Providing residential education for adult students in Oxford.Providing bursaries and scholarships to support students. | £3,106,240
<strong>East Kilbride Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC040731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040731)]<br>To advance public participation in sport in the community of East Kilbride through the promotion of participation in football and other sports which involve physical skill and exertion, by all means including providing coaching and development. To advance health in the community of East Kilbride by the promotion of the benefits of physical activity, provision of assistance in relation to sports-related and healthy lifestyle matters and the promotion of good mental health. To promote community development and equality and diversity in East Kilbride by encouraging participation in sports, activities and programmes which bring together a cross section of the community, encouraging all to participate, regardless of background or ability. To provide recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the community of East Kilbride and also for those who have need of such facilities or would benefit from such activities by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, financial hardship or social and economic circumstances. To advance education in the community of East Kilbride, particularly in relation to health and fitness, sporting activity and life skills, through providing or organising educational, training and lifelong learning opportunities. To promote, facilitate and to provide funding and other assistance for such other community projects in the East Kilbride area which shall be of benefit to the local community or sections of the local community regardless of age, gender, ability, religion or ethnic origin. | £290,982
<strong>SYWELL VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [295196](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295196)]<br>Provision of facilities for the local community. For example the hall is used for Adult Education and other classes, Parish Council meetings, Brownies, Air Scouts, private functions etc. | £13,018
