# School support `ED200`

School support is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the School support subcategory.

4,300 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.12% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(friends of .* school|school support)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,425 | 3.30%
£10k - £100k | 1,610 | 2.33%
£100k - £250k | 30 | 0.14%
£250k - £500k | 3 | 0.03%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 4,077 | 2.13%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,146 | 2.43%
ccni | 97 | 1.35%
oscr | 57 | 0.23%
Total | 4,300 | 2.12%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FRIENDS OF WIZNITZ LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [255685](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-255685)]<br>Supporting Orthodox Jewish religious education, the advancement of the Orthodox Jewish Religion and the relief of poverty by grant-making to institutions and individuals and  allowing the use of a building as a school. | £4,940,151
<strong>FRIENDS OF BEIS CHINUCH LEBONOS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1153187](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153187)]<br>To support the Beis Chinuch Lebonos School. Relief of poverty and the advancement of  Orthodox Jewish education. | £4,440,108
<strong>FRIENDS OF BEIS SOROH SCHNEIRER</strong> [Charity number: [1153647](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153647)]<br>To support the Beis Soroh Schneirer School. Relief of poverty and education in accordance with the Orthodox Jewish Faith. | £4,390,553
<strong>The Governors of the Donaldson Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC017417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017417)]<br>3.1	The purposes of The Governors of the Donaldson Trust are:  3.1.1	 The advancement of education for children and adults who are neurodivergent, including but not limited, to the provision of special school support, transition services, general education and support in higher education,  3.1.2	 the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, specifically those who are neurodivergent, in all aspects of their lives including independent living skills, health awareness, employment support and transition services, and  3.1.3	 The promotion of equality and diversity for people who are neurodivergent by influencing and impacting services across society in how to embrace neurodiversity and by representing neurodiversity socially, politically and culturally.  | £3,613,570
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THE BOBOVER YESHIVAH</strong> [Charity number: [242075](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-242075)]<br>The charity runs a school for children over the age of 5 and also gives aid to needy Talmudical students and makes grants to the poor and needy. | £1,665,779
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF QUEEN ELIZABETH'S SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [289174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289174)]<br>The charity's principle activity is that of providing for all or any of the following:Advancement of education at Queen Elizabeth's School ("the School")Provision & maintenance of School buildings, fixtures & equipmentGeneral encouragement of all educational pursuitsFurtherance of any general charitable object for benefit of SchoolProvision of financial assistance to necessitous pupils | £1,400,743
<strong>THE BRITISH FRIENDS OF HARVARD BUSINESS SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1000531](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000531)]<br>Raising scholarship funds for Fulbright tuition scholarships to Harvard Business School; promote the education of persons studying at HBS. | £1,367,039
<strong>THE SMILES FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1087961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087961)]<br>Working in North West Romania and founded on Biblical teachings, the projects include the Family Care project, Homeless and Community work; a School & Nursery in Tileagd; Medical & Social Assistance; Children's After-School support in Gepiu and Rapa as well as Outreach projects in Bihor and Arad Counties plus other seasonal programmes. | £730,762
<strong>FREE TO BE KIDS</strong> [Charity number: [1165678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165678)]<br>Free to Be Kids provides respite holidays, therapeutic adventures, after-school support and a range of year round residentials for children who are struggling with social or emotional difficulties, significant social/financial disadvantage or who are growing up in marginalised communities. Without our work, many would not have support or a break from often extremely difficult home circumstances. | £663,991
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE LONDON ORATORY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1082226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082226)]<br>The principle activities of the charity each year are to raise funds primarily from parental contributions and to remit these funds to The London Oratory School. | £498,547


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Friends of Rusper Primary School</strong> [Charity number: [1046735](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1046735)]<br>Charity raises funds to support school via various activities. | £4,856
<strong>PARENTS AND FRIENDS OF ESTCOTS SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1150731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150731)]<br>The Parents and Friends Association of Estcots Primary aim to raise money for the school, to provide extra resources, activities and experiences for the children. We run many fundraising events throughout the school year, such as Christmas and Summer Fairs, discos, quiz nights etc. | £15,997
<strong>FRIENDS OF KINGSWOOD</strong> [Charity number: [1150250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150250)]<br>Running fundraising events (Summer Fair, social events etc), both at Kingswood Primary School and within the local communityProviding grants to families to support inclusion of less privileged pupilsProviding additional facilities, equipment and resources to Kingswood Primary School to enhance the learning environment for all pupils. | £6,424
<strong>FRIENDS OF NORTON IN HALES SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1098597](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098597)]<br>Summer Fayre, Winter Fayre, Clothes collections, Discos, Film Nights. | £5,131
<strong>FRIENDS OF TROWSE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1210522](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210522)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE ASSOCIATION (THE OBJECTS) IS TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF PUPILS IN THE SCHOOL IN PARTICULAR BY:2.1 DEVELOPING EFFECTIVE RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN THE STAFF, PARENTS AND OTHERS ASSOCIATED WITH THE SCHOOL2.2 ENGAGING IN ACTIVITIES OR PROVIDING FACILITIES OR EQUIPMENT WHICH SUPPORT THE SCHOOL AND ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUPILS. | 
<strong>Banagher Community Playgroup Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI103150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103150)]<br>The Playgroup provides a pre-school education for 3-4 year-olds in the Banagher area (part-time, 5 mornings per week) and a small number of pre-pre-school places for other part-time children. We follow the Department of Education's Early Years curriculum and are affiliated with Early Years (the organisation). We employ 4 part-time staff to deliver our service. Each day begins at 9.15am with 1 hour's free play in which the children can move around the different areas within the Playgroup (eg home corner, sand table). There is then a 15 minute buffet break which encourages healthy eating and helps children to learn to pour their own milk and butter their own bread. There is 15 minutes of large group time in which the children come together to enjoy music, movement, drama, rhymes and storytelling. The final session is outdoor play in our purpose-built area, helping children to develop gross motor skills and activities such as gardening. We also encourage visitors to support learning (eg meeting a teacher, a nurse and baking activities). The children undertake a number of visits during the year (eg to the local library, nature walks and fun farm) and we hold an annual sports day for children and parents. The Trustees meet once a month and a parents' Friends of the Playgroup group meets every 2 months to plan fundraising activities and input into Playgroup activities such as trips and visits. We also work with the local primary school to support the children as they transition at their end of their pre-school year. We work closely with our parents and wider community (eg grandparents, neighbours etc). We are inspected by the ETI and WHSST on a regular basis - our most recent inspections were in 2014 and we received a 'Very Good' rating. The Playgroup Leader also engages with Leaders from other local playgroups for learning and sharing of knowledge. | £57,990
<strong>FRIENDS OF SHERWOOD PARK SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1050838](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1050838)]<br>Friends of Sherwood Park hold fundraising events such as fetes, disco's, quiz nights, sponsored events and the like, with the aim of providing necessary equipment, chairs, changing tables, playground, upkeep of the buses, Christmas presents for the pupils etc. Without the fundraising many of these things the school cannot afford, even though they are essential. | £5,106
<strong>FRIENDS OF WYNYARD PRIMARY</strong> [Charity number: [1187601](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187601)]<br>Friends of Wynyard Primary hold various fundraising events as well as Summer and Christmas Fairs as a registered charity to raise funds for Wynyard C of E Primary School. Our Charity is run by a Chair, Treasurer and Secretary who are solely responsible for ensuring we adhere to any rules set out by the Charity Commission. | £18,561
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF LUCKINGTON SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1076170](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076170)]<br>To raise funds for use by Luckington Community Primary School to enhance the education of pupils | £10,665
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THAMES DITTON JUNIOR SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1123621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123621)]<br>The Society organises a number of social and fundraising events throughout the year with the purpose of building a sense of community, providing fun activities for the children and to raise funds to buy equipment for the school. | £64,056
