# School fundraising `ED202`

School fundraising is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the School support subcategory.

4,868 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.40% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(school (fund|foundation|association)|benefit of (the )?pupils|(funds|fundraising|donations) (for|to) .* (school|pupils))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,515 | 3.52%
£10k - £100k | 2,084 | 2.98%
£100k - £250k | 96 | 0.44%
£250k - £500k | 40 | 0.37%
£1m - £10m | 23 | 0.26%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.25%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.32%
Total | 4,782 | 2.49%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,700 | 2.75%
ccni | 92 | 1.28%
oscr | 76 | 0.31%
Total | 4,868 | 2.40%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE MILL HILL SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1064758](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064758)]<br>education | £98,389,000
<strong>THE MANCHESTER GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [529909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-529909)]<br>Manchester Grammar School is an independent boys school whose purpose is to educate boys who qualify by nature of their ability, regardless of family circumstances. Income from the school's foundation bursary fund, held by the MGS Trust, is used on a means tested basis to support boys from lower-income families who would not otherwise be able to accept a place at the school. | £29,807,536
<strong>COVENTRY SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [528961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-528961)]<br>Coventry School Foundation Schools provide an independent education for around 2,000 pupils aged 3-18. The schools, all of which are co-educational, are Bablake Senior and Junior Schools, Bablake Pre Prep (also known as The Grange), King Henry VIII Senior and Junior Schools and King Henry VIII Pre-Prep. Bursaries & scholarships are available on entry at years 3 and 7. | £26,420,028
<strong>WAKEFIELD GRAMMAR SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1088415](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088415)]<br>The object for which the Foundation is established is to advance education by the provision of a school or schools in or near Wakefield or elsewhere in Britain and by ancillary or incidental educational activities and other associated activities for the benefit of the community. | £24,590,807
<strong>THE SAINT JOHN'S SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [312064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312064)]<br>To advance the education of boys and girls from the ages of 11 to 18. The provision of subsidised education for Foundationers (being children of Church of England or Church of Wales clergy of limited means). The provision of means-tested bursaries to pupils whose families would not otherwise be able to afford the full fees and thereby widen access to the education provided by the School. | £24,385,602
<strong>THE POCKLINGTON SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [529834](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-529834)]<br>Provision of a day and boarding school for boys and girls in Pocklington | £14,244,922
<strong>GERMAN SCHOOL ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [325073](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-325073)]<br>To educate children and adults in the language, literature and general culture of GermanyTo promote the education of German speaking persons of all ages resident in Germany and elsewhere in the language, literature and general culture of EnglandGenerally to promote the study of German culture in England, and English culture in Germany. | £13,658,656
<strong>STOVER SCHOOL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [306712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306712)]<br>The Charity is involved in the advancement of education by the provision and maintenance of a school to provide a high quality education in accordance with the principles of the Church of England as by law established, enabling pupils to acquire the qualifications, confidence and skills needed to lead rewarding and successful lives as good citizens. | £8,017,316
<strong>Christian Schools (Scotland) Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC006206](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006206)]<br>the advancement of education by the establishment and operation of an independent school or schools in Scotland for pupils from the age of 2 to 18 and to provide means-tested fee assistance (of up to 100% from age 8 to age 18) to provide a hardship fund to assist pupils and families encountering financial difficulties, to create educational links with schools in Third World countries and to raise funds for the provision of education for young people in such Third World countries, to seek to serve the community and make the facilities of the school or schools available to the community at not-for-profit rates and to provide not-for-profit Aftercare facilities for working parents.  to advance the Christian faith by the active promotion in the independent school or schools to be established by the Company of a knowledge of the Christian faith through assemblies, Religious Education and class time, by the provision of reduction in fees for the children of full-time Christian workers including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the children of Ministers, Pastors and Missionaries and by the provision of facilities to churches and Christian organisations at not-for-profit rate   | £6,020,733
<strong>SEVENOAKS SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [307923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307923)]<br>To provide facilities for the education of children at Sevenoaks School by raising funds to support new building projects and the widening of access by the award of bursaries. | £3,999,529


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NESTON PRIMARY SCHOOL FRIENDS AND PARENTS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1048669](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048669)]<br>to raise funds for the school and provide help for school events | £2,075
<strong>FRIENDS OF CAROLINE HASLETT PRIMARY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1144632](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144632)]<br>FUNDRAISING TO PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES TO SUPPORT THE SCHOOL AND ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUPILS. TO PROVIDE SOCIAL EVENTS FOR PARENTS AND PUPILS AND THE SCHOOL COMMUNITY. TO DEVELOP AND MAINTAIN THE SCHOOL'S LINKS WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY. TO DEVELOP EFFECTIVE RELATIONSHIPS BY ENSURING PARENTS VIEWS ARE REPRESENTED. | £10,436
<strong>Lingfield College Parents’ Association</strong> [Charity number: [288698](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288698)]<br>School community events such as discos, bake sales and summer and Christmas events. The sale of promotional items. | £866
<strong>TANWORTH IN ARDEN PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1212643](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1212643)]<br>Our mission is to raise funds for Tanworth in Arden Primary School and Nursery to enhance pupils' learning whilst building solid relationships between parents, school and the local community. We aim to do this whilst creating experiences and memories for the pupils through our fundraising events. | 
<strong>ST MARY'S MILL BANK PARENTS, TEACHERS AND FRIENDS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1141418](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141418)]<br>The PTFA is here for you - the parents, guardians, friends and teachers of all the children who attend St Mary?s School. Our main aim is to raise funds to purchase items that would otherwise fall outside the school's budget. We also provide an informal social network for parents. | £7,856
<strong>ST MICHAELS PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1204053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204053)]<br>Fundraising for Rossington St Michaels School.Funds are raised by organising events such as school discos, pop-up shops, donut sales, summer fayre, movie nights.  We meet regularly to organise these events and they are all completed at the school.Funds raised are spent within school by requests from teachers with regards to school clubs or from the Head teacher for school equipment. | £8,588
<strong>SLEIGHTS SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1051529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051529)]<br>The object of the fund is to advance the education of the pupils of the school by providing or assisting the provision of education, recreational and other charitable facilities in augmentation of such facilities financed by the local education authority. | £2,167
<strong>FRIENDS OF MARDEN LODGE</strong> [Charity number: [1126778](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126778)]<br>Fundraising for benefit of school and pupils and supporting relationships with wider community | £4,461
<strong>CRAKEHALL C.E PRIMARY SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1049675](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049675)]<br>School tripsSwimming feesschool uniform | 
<strong>THE BREAKSPEAR SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1056056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1056056)]<br>The Fund receives donations, largely from parents, to support various school related activities, though also as contributions to other charitable causes for which the pupils seek to raise money. | £101,982
