# Parent teacher `ED201`

Parent teacher is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the School support subcategory.

5,599 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.76% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(p\.?t\.?f?\.?a|parents?,? ?(and)? (teachers?|staff)|home and school|parents'? association)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,069 | 4.07%
£10k - £100k | 2,237 | 3.28%
£100k - £250k | 29 | 0.14%
£250k - £500k | 7 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 5,346 | 2.80%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 5,221 | 3.06%
ccni | 296 | 4.11%
oscr | 82 | 0.33%
Total | 5,599 | 2.76%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PARENTKIND</strong> [Charity number: [1072833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072833)]<br>Parentkind is a charity that champions parents so that they can participate in their child's education and school life to the full. We are also the largest membership body of Parent Teacher Associations and other parent groups in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. | £1,746,000
<strong>SCHOOL FOOD MATTERS</strong> [Charity number: [1134094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134094)]<br>School Food Matters exists to teach children about food and to improve children's access to healthy, sustainable food during their time at school. We provide fully-funded food education programmes to schools.  Our experience delivering these programmes informs and strengthens our campaigns, bringing the voices of children, parents and teachers to government policy. | £1,217,861
<strong>THE UNIVERSITY NURSERY PARENTS ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [283949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283949)]<br>To provide a caring environment where high quality play and education are used to stimulate and encourage the intellectual, physical and emotional development of the pre-school children of the officers, staff and students of Bristol University or of other persons. | £795,014
<strong>CHILDREN ON THE AUTISTIC SPECTRUM PARENTS' ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1110260](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110260)]<br>We run youth clubs for young people on the Autistic Spectrum.We provide information and discussion facilities for parents. | £582,131
<strong>SAVILE TOWN MUSLIM PARENTS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1057660](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1057660)]<br>MANAGING GIRLS' SCHOOL,ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION | £483,475
<strong>DAISY'S DREAM</strong> [Charity number: [1177145](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177145)]<br>Daisy's Dream is a professional support service which responds to the needs of children and families affected by life threatening illness or bereavement. We offer a flexible service which is tailored to meet the individual needs of each child and their family. This may include telephone support and advice, group events, home and school visits for the child or young person. | £391,402
<strong>Ardoyne Youth Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI102199](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102199)]<br>Ardoyne Youth Club is a registered charity and has been delivering youth provision within the Ardoyne area of North Belfast for nearly 50 years. As an organisation we are very much aware of our role within the community, offering targeted youth provision which helps to develop the young people involved from a personal, social and educational viewpoint whilst also impacting upon the local Ardoyne community as a whole through the reduction of criminal activity, substance abuse and improving relations amongst young people and also between young people and other groups within the community. In particular the Centre develops means of engaging young people through programmes which they can not only participate in but also help to design and deliver. Our programmes and activities are responsive to and reflective of the needs of the young people in the Ardoyne and wider area which we serve, and are strategically designed to correspond with the curriculum for youth provision. Thus, we feel that this approach fosters a greater sense of engagement and buy in from young people which ultimately ensures that the project has a much greater impact in improving the quality of life that they experience. The above benefits will be evidenced through a number of evaluative means including: recordings and observations of staff members; other qualitative data from parents, teachers, and community representatives; quantitative data from programme and project evaluations; data from other sources including other service providers both statutory and non-statutory. | £382,855
<strong>QUEST FOR LEARNING</strong> [Charity number: [1107219](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107219)]<br>WE HELP CHILDREN EXPERIENCING DIFFICULTIES WITH EARLY LITERACY AND NUMERACY TO IMPROVE THEIR SKILLS AND BECOME CONFIDENT AND ENTHUSIASTIC LEARNERS AT HOME AND SCHOOL. WE TEACH CHILDREN INDIVIDUALLY AND IN GROUPS ON TAILOR-MADE COURSES. WE MODEL OUR APPROACH AND SHARE IDEAS AND RESOURCES WITH THEIR PARENTS/CARERS. WE TRAIN TEACHERS AND TEACHING ASSISTANTS TO DELIVER BASIC SKILLS SUPPORT. | £325,831
<strong>PARENTS ASSOCIATION OF CHILDREN WITH TUMOURS AND LEUKAEMIA</strong> [Charity number: [508412](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508412)]<br>Provides support and organises trips, treats and holidays for families of children being treated for cancer or leukaemia at Sheffield Children's Hospital. Supports reseach projects and provides equipment for the ward, clinic and community nurses. PACT house provides accommodation for use by families whilst a child is undergoing treatment at the hospital. | £320,078
<strong>The Institute of The Brothers of The Christian Schools (in Northern Ireland) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101722](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101722)]<br>The Institute acts as trustee in holding the title of the two schools and pastoral centre. The schools, one secondary and one grammar have a common ethos and it provides a suitable environment for the development and advancement of the Roman Catholic faith in Northern Ireland. The institute provides a number of animation programmes within its schools and funds a number of extra curricular activities which take place at the pastoral centre. Kilmore House in the Glens of Antrim is used for youth initiatives, weekend training courses for youth leaders and volunteer workshops. The Centre Stage Summer Drama School is now in its tenth year and caters for young people aged 12 to 18. The Cursillo Group holds weekend workshops/retreats for religious development for adult groups. Football and hurling clubs use the facility for training and relaxation weekend sessions. The local mountain rescue teams also use the facility for training. A group knows as Peace Lines conducts interdenominational weekend retreats. Local cultural groups use the facility for music workshops and a number of family reunions from the locality have also been held in the facility. The De la Salle residence in Downpatrick accommodates the following groups throughout the year: Legion of Mary, Lectio Divino, The Mother's Prayer Group, Knights of Columbanus, The Russell Gaelic Union and East Down Board, local Parent Teacher's Association and school and adult groups for Liturgies, religious services and retreats. The De la Salle residence in the Glen Road accommodates the following groups throughout the year: The local school pastoral team meets four days a week. The Cursilio Group meets three nights weekly, St Vincent de Paul meets weekly. In addition local parish groups meet frequently and use the facility for one day retreats. | £299,803


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Friends of Rossmar School</strong> [Charity number: [NI106815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106815)]<br>The Friends of Rossmar School is run by a group of volunteer parents and staff to organise social events that develop and strengthen home - school relationships as well as occasionally raise funds to purchase educational resources for the children at Rossmar School. We also support the school by providing hospitality at school events and volunteering for roles in school such as gardening. | £17,946
<strong>Knockevin Parent Staff Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI100479](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100479)]<br>Our organisation is made up of parents and staff from Knockevin Special School. As a group we try and involve all of the staff ,families and local community in our activities. We meet at least once each term looking at how we can support the pupils and the school.We arrange fundraising events. We update our work on PSA Facebook page and in direct communication to families.We like to feedback how we use the money raised by fundraising events. The local community is involved in many of our activities. Each year there is a FunRun organised by Knockevin PSA.The local business community in Downpatrick and surrounding towns are supportive of this event and likewise PSA purchases provisions required from the local traders.Events are cross-community and are often supported by children and young people from many of the local schools. This affords an opportunity to integrate our special young people with the wider community and for the community to experience the richness of knowing these special pupils, | £10,493
<strong>DAME ALLAN'S SCHOOLS PARENTS' ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1137728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137728)]<br>The main fund raising events are the annual Christmas Bazaar and the bi-annual Spring Ball. DASPA organises social events to combine fund raising with enhancing the family ethos associated with Dame Allan schools. Other recent events have included a Wine-tasting evening, an Indian culture evening, a Ceilidh & a disco for middle school pupils. | £30,057
<strong>SUNNINGHILL SCHOOL PARENTS TEACHERS AND FRIENDS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [296074](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296074)]<br>Parent Teachers and Friends committee, whose aims are to advance the education of Sunninghill Preparatory school, particularly by providing or assisting in the provision of facilities for education at the School. We encourage cooperation, good relations, good communications and help raise funds. | £11,500
<strong>BISHOP'S HULL SCHOOL PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1165982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165982)]<br>Parent Teacher Association for Bishop's Hull School, Taunton.We raise funds for the school to provide additional resources and experiences for the children. | £4,059
<strong>FRIENDS OF SPALDWICK SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1087934](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087934)]<br>The Friends of Spaldwick School, as the PTA for Spaldwick Primary School, undertake fundraising activities to be able to support learning activities through the contribution of funds for additional resources to enhance both the indoor and outdoor educational experiences of the children at the school | £7,388
<strong>WENTWORTH PRIMARY SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1026594](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026594)]<br>Fundraising to purchase equipment and support activities at Wentworth Primary School | £49
<strong>NEW ASH GREEN PRIMARY SCHOOL PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1145051](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145051)]<br>Arranging and running fundraising events | £8,991
<strong>NEW SCOTLAND HILL PTA</strong> [Charity number: [1093909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093909)]<br>Parent Teacher Association undertaking fundraising events throughout the year to provide resources for New Scotland Hill Primary School and Nursery. | £31,935
<strong>The Magic Roundabout Playgroup</strong> [Charity number: [NI107119](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107119)]<br>We believe our playgroup has a positive impact on the physical, personal and social development of children who access our playgroup. Our aims to carry out purpose include ensuring high quality, preschool education within the local rural community and to enhance the development and education of children under statutory school age by encouraging parents/guardians to understand and provide for the needs of their children by:- (a) Offering appropriate play facilities, with the right of parents/guardians to take responsibility for and to become involved in the activities of the group, ensuring that the group offers opportunities for all children, regardless of religion, culture, race or means. (b) Encouraging the study of the needs of such children and their families and promoting public interest in and recognition of the needs of the children and their families in the local area. 2. Working in a partnership with parents, staff, statutory agencies and voluntary sector organisations. 3. Providing an opportunity for children to learn, develop and grow in a safe, friendly and supporting environment. 4. To provide activities and experiences that are planned to meet their individual stages of development within the early years foundation. 5. Early referral to relevant agency 6. Work closely with local primary school and share information. A primary objective is also to get the children ready for school. Playgroup establishes the start of separation from parents/childcare, daily/weekly routine, self-care and development of communication and language. Self-care such as using the toilet and other key skills such as dressing themselves. The playgroup strives to ensure the child's development is continually nurtured and monitored, issues that may go unseen due to larger numbers will be acted upon promptly in our small rural facility. | 
