# Mentoring `ED305`

Mentoring is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) categoryand the Training subcategory.

1,277 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.63% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(mentor(s|ing)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 301 | 0.36%
£10k - £100k | 373 | 0.58%
£100k - £250k | 207 | 1.11%
£250k - £500k | 110 | 1.25%
£500k - £1m | 80 | 1.44%
£1m - £10m | 73 | 0.95%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.23%
Total | 1,148 | 0.60%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,051 | 0.62%
ccni | 135 | 1.96%
oscr | 91 | 0.36%
Total | 1,277 | 0.63%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SECKFORD FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1110964](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110964)]<br>The Foundation provides education and care to the young and elderly within Suffolk. This includes care at the Seckford Almshouses, the operation of Woodbridge School and (through a subsidiary company) Saxmundham, Beccles and Ixworth Free Schools. It also provides support through its grants programme to individuals and organisations and has apprenticeship and mentoring schemes. | £13,494,070
<strong>The Wise Group </strong> [Charity number: [SC004089](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004089)]<br>2 The company's objects are:  2.1 To relieve unemployment, and in particular (a) by providing coaching, mentoring and other support to people who are unemployed, to assist them in identifying their needs, strengths and aspirations, in gaining access to specialist support and/or vocational activities, and in developing their personal capability to enter the labour market; (b) by working with employers to facilitate the creation of high quality work experience and/or employment opportunities for people who are unemployed, and to identify the requirements of employers with regard to the skills which they would expect of people taking up those opportunities, and (c) by providing ongoing support to those who have moved into paid employment to enable them to stay in work and progress in the workplace;  2.2 To advance education, and in particular by supporting people to develop and enhance their skills and qualifications to help them fulfil their potential and improve their quality of life;  2.3 To reduce re-offending, and in particular by providing mentoring and other support to people who have a history of offending, to assist them in assessing their needs, recognising and actively reducing their personal risks of re-offending, and making fundamental changes in their lives which lead to reduced offending behaviour and the ability to make a positive contribution to their families and to their local community;  2.4 To relieve the hardship associated with fuel poverty and to protect the natural environment from the damage caused by irresponsible practices regarding use of energy and disposal of waste; and in particular (a) by delivering advice and support to equip people with the knowledge and practical skills to become more energy efficient and to adopt practices which reduce the volume of waste sent to landfill and (b) by providing access to financial assistance for the installation of energy saving measures and/or more efficient heating systems;  2.5 To relieve and/or prevent poverty through the delivery of a range of programmes, activities and actions that help individuals and communities to relieve the effects of and alleviate poverty, and including (without limitation) projects directed towards financial inclusion;  Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity. | £12,742,683
<strong>THE MASTER AND SCHOLARS OF BALLIOL COLLEGE IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1144032](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144032)]<br>In pursuit of our charitable objects to advance education, religion, learning and research within the context of the University of Oxford, we admit, teach, and mentor undergraduate and graduate students on a wide variety of degree courses, facilitate research and scholarship within the academic membership of the College, and cater for an international community of learning, and maintain a chapel. | £11,764,000
<strong>PENROSE OPTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1151455](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151455)]<br>Relieve people in need with mental ill health, those suffering from substance misuse, ex-offenders, homeless, poor people, aged, disabled or chronically sick by the following means: (a) Housing, accommodation, services including medical, social, welfare, rehabilitative, resettlement and care services; (b) Education, training, employment, mentoring and other similar services. | £10,716,000
<strong>YOUTH SPORT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1086915](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086915)]<br>Improving the quality of PE & school sportDeveloping incl. PE & school sport to engage the least activeModernising competitive school sport to offer more young people the opp to competeEnabling & empowering young people to lead & be role modelsMaximising the experiences of elite athletes via mentor training & deploymentSupporting the use of PE to impact on academic progress & acheivement | £9,510,315
<strong>INTOUNI</strong> [Charity number: [1118525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118525)]<br>IntoUniversity aims to address underachievement and social exclusion among young people by offering an integrated programme of out-of-school study, mentoring, aspirational coaching, personal support and, in partnership with universities, specially-devised FOCUS weeks, days and weekends. | £8,850,088
<strong>HUMBERCARE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [702269](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702269)]<br>To prevent offending and to reduce the risk of re-offending in the community, by offering  mentoring, support, advice and guidance on a wide range of issues, to the homeless, those leaving the looked after system, those with substance misuse and/or with  mental health issues and those at risk | £8,220,055
<strong>YOUTH BUSINESS INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1123946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123946)]<br>Youth Business International is a not-for-profit organisation that leads a global network of independent country initiatives helping young people to start their own business and create employment. Through our network we assist young entrepreneurs, unable to find support elsewhere, with a combination of access to capital, mentoring, and other business development enabling sustainable job creation. | £6,611,138
<strong>TRANSFORMING LIVES FOR GOOD (TLG) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1074114](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074114)]<br>Education for 11-16 year olds in the following locations:BradfordBoltonNewcastleNorth BirminghamManchesterHammersmithReadingNottinghamWakefieldSouth East BirminghamLewishamTendringEarly Intervention Project - behaviour coaching and mentoring UK wide for 7-11 year oldsMake Lunch - providing lunches during school holiday periods for those in Food Poverty | £6,034,624
<strong>WESTBANK COMMUNITY HEALTH AND CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1119541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119541)]<br>Provides care and support to patients and  carers.Volunteers provide transport, practical help, befriending. Carer support, advice,access to short breaks for adult and young carers.Day care for older people. Mentoring. Family and childcare activities. Volunteering opportunities. Health improvement and health promotion activities including lifestyle change programmes for long term conditions. | £5,279,291


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNET COMMUNITY PROJECTS</strong> [Charity number: [1139376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139376)]<br>Barnet Community Projects exists to facilitate long term social improvement in the London Borough of Barnet.  We do this through residents engagement, empowering them to deliver projects that make a difference to the local community.  We deliver youth activities, community cafe, skatepark sessions, reparation projects, mentoring programmes, sports sessions & activities to address disadvantage. | £96,541
<strong>MATRIX NEUROLOGICAL</strong> [Charity number: [1159973](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159973)]<br>a)  Case Management & Advocacy   b)  Children and Young People:        - Home-based rehabilitation activities and support;      - Education support needs of children & young people       - Employment support activities c)  Families: Mentor, educate and support parents in managing their child's long-term condition/disability | £101,937
<strong>Oh Yeah Music Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100904)]<br>The Oh Yeah Music Centre is a dedicated music hub in the Cathedral Quarter, Belfast’s cultural district. It is a resource for music and the business of music. Housed in a three story building it features a free music exhibition, a café and venue space and a welcoming attitude to anyone who wants to know more about music and what it can achieve. Oh Yeah is home to seven small businesses, plus a recording studio and affordable rehearsal rooms. The building hosts live events, workshops and training sessions, summer schemes and songwriter sessions. Various programmes are in place to grown and mentor new talent and to sustain musicians of all ages. We work with organisations such as Oxfam, Amnesty International, The Equality Commission, The Prince's Trust, Include Youth, Start 360, UnLtd and many community centres. Industry organisations such as the Musician's Union, PRS, MCPS plus Creative And Cultural Skills use our facilities. We develop new talent, release compilations of new music and coordinate events such as Belfast Music Week. A series of outreach programmes has given training to disadvantaged young people. Our vision is to bring out the best in people through music. | £679,436
<strong>THE FAMILY SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1198308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198308)]<br>TO ADVANCE IN LIFE AND RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE, WHATEVER THEIR BACKGROUND, THROUGHOUT THE UK BY:(A) PROVIDING SUPPORT, ADVICE AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS.(B) BY PROVIDING MENTORING AND SUPPORT SERVICES TO PARENTS AND CARERS OF YOUNG PEOPLE. | 
<strong>Brownlow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100281](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100281)]<br>Brownlow Ltd are the local specialists in enterprise and small business development. Established 1989 to spearhead the social and economic regeneration of the Brownlow area of Craigavon, we seek to culitivate the spirit of entrepreneurship within the Brownlow area. The company is pro active in providing help and guidance and stimulating local enterprise development. The main areas Brownlow Ltd are involved with are: •Enterprise Development including mentoring and small business initiatives •Workspace provision and property management •Infrastructure improvement •Community development The main aims are: •Sustaining / improving small business activity levels in the central area of Craigavon •Economic growth and development of the Brownlow area •Increasing local business start up rates Brownlow Ltd provides: •Modern Light industrial and retail units available in a variety of sizes and in different locations at competitive rates •Business advice and support •Information and sign posting to alternative sources of enterprise assistance •Tailored and confidential advisory / mentoring sessions - Easy in easy out tenancy •Our tenants can also avail of our extensive range of administrative support service, including photcopying, faxing, broadband internet access and the use of an interview room as well as a board room, IT Suite and / or training room •Small Business Programmes: Brownlow Ltd has substantial experience and proven track record of successfully designing and delivering a comprehensive range of enterprise support and development initiative •Finance for business may be available in the form of a soft loan to help set up businesses in the Brownlow area - Develop community linkages by building relationships with local resident groups | £274,817
<strong>Shoot Academy Farnborough</strong> [Charity number: [1177393](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177393)]<br>Shoot Academy, Farnborough is a charity that serves the local community of Farnborough delivering services in Schools and the local community in Mentoring, sports, coaching,  It is a Christian charity. | £16,000
<strong>KEEP KIDS IN SCHOOL - FRIENDS OF APEED BENIN, WEST AFRICA</strong> [Charity number: [1148755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148755)]<br>The aim of Keep Kids in School is just that: to help kids that have lost one or both parents to keep going to school in the face of severe poverty.  We fundraise and support the work of a local NGO, APEED-Benin, in West Africa. We keep kids in school by paying towards their school fees, buying school books, stationery and cloth to make school uniforms, maintaining a project library and mentoring. | £2,490
<strong>FLOURISH MENTORS</strong> [Charity number: [1197095](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197095)]<br> A RESOURCE FOR YOUNG WOMEN (INCLUDING NON-BINARY AND GENDER FLUID) AGED BETWEEN 16 AND 25 LIVING IN THE BRIGHTON AND HOVE AREA, TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS INDEPENDENT, MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS. BY PROVIDING ONE TO ONE MENTORING ADVICE AND ASSISTANCE AND ORGANIZING WORKSHOP PROGRAMMES FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND PRACTICAL SKILL SUPPORT. | 
<strong>K&Q  FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1196700](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196700)]<br>THE FOUNDATION IS ESTABLISHED FOR THE FOLLOWING OBJECTS FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN THE UK AND NIGERIA: -1. TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP BY OPERATING FOOD BANKS AND PROVIDING SUCH ITEMS AND SUPPORT AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO JOB SUPPORT TRAINING AND MENTORING.2. TO ADVANCE EDUCATION BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING BASIC READING, WRITING AND LITERACY LESSONS; AND3. TO PROVIDE OR ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NEED OF SUCH FACILITIES BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCES WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | 
<strong>CHARITY MENTORS KENT AND MEDWAY</strong> [Charity number: [1193618](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193618)]<br>The charity aims to support the capacity and sustainability of the voluntary sector in the county of Kent and the Medway Unitary Authority.  This will be done through the provision of high quality mentoring and other services to their leaders, with the aim of enabling and encouraging clear strategic thinking, planning and action by voluntary sector organisations, | 
