# IT and digital `ED304`

IT and digital is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the Training subcategory.

312 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(ICT|(IT|computers?|coding|programming) (training|classes|teaching|course)|(training|classes|teaching|course) in (IT|computers?|coding|programming)|digital society|digital economy)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 90 | 0.12%
£10k - £100k | 114 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 49 | 0.24%
£250k - £500k | 27 | 0.27%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.26%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 306 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 227 | 0.13%
ccni | 77 | 1.07%
oscr | 8 | 0.03%
Total | 312 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OM International</strong> [Charity number: [1112655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112655)]<br>The charity owns offices  to accommodate the International Coordinating Team (ICT) of Operation Mobilisation(OM) An international partnership operating in over 110 countries. The ICT co-ordinates decision making throughout the OM world, and supplies services and resources vital to the functioning of OM internationally. | £6,139,219
<strong>VOLUNTARY ACTION SHEFFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [223007](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223007)]<br>Local infrastructre organisation providing a range of services to voluntary and community organisations, including training, specialist advice (including legal, HR, volunteering, ICT) accountancy, payroll, supporting partnership working and accommodation (office, training and meeting facilities). | £3,098,100
<strong>AGE UK CAMDEN</strong> [Charity number: [293446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293446)]<br>Age UK Camden is the legal name. The charity: (a) Provides services; (b) Works in partnerships; (c) Campaigns with/for older people; (d) Innovates and undertakes research. Current services include: Day Services; Information/Advice; befriending; social prescribing; counselling; shopping;  computer training;  support for older LGBT people. | £2,384,494
<strong>AGE CONCERN SLOUGH AND BERKSHIRE EAST</strong> [Charity number: [1079949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079949)]<br>Advocacy Signposting Information & Advice Carer Support Day-care Domiciliary Care Drop-in-centres Lunch Clubs Home Visiting Home from Hospital Befriending Shopping & Cleaning Toe-nail cutting, IT Training, Back to Work Assistance. Trading - Handy Help Subsidiary Trading Company - Cafes Charity Shops Furniture & Electrical Stores Handyperson Services Home Security | £1,622,288
<strong>AGE CONCERN CHESHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1091608](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091608)]<br>Advocacy, Day Care, Independent Living, Supporting You, Falls Prevention, Befriending, Information & Advice inc Welfare Benefits, Phonelink, Get Active, Adult Education & IT classes, Arts project, Mentoring, Campaigning, Resource Groups, Volunteering, Charity Shops, Fundraising, Men in Sheds, Wellbeing, Dementia advisors, Social isolationFurther information at www.ageukcheshire.org.uk | £1,486,823
<strong>QUEENS CRESCENT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1096655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096655)]<br>We provide facilities & services to disadvantaged people across 5 community facilities. Core activities include: Apprenticeship and job training opportunities, remedial education services, English classes (ESOL), cook & eat, healthy living programme, youth club, nursery, older people services, keep fit class, gym, under 5's drop in, universal youth provision, sports, IT training & DBS services. | £1,445,628
<strong>Enterprise Causeway Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI102034](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102034)]<br>Causeway Enterprise Agency offers a variety of workspace units for rent on favourable terms in Coleraine, Kilrea and Ballycastle. A large conference room and a variety of meeting facilities, training rooms and ICT suites are available for hire to both businesses and voluntary and community organisations. The availability of workspace accommodation is complemented by the provision of secretarial and administrative support, on-site business support staff, free car parking and CCTV. Causeway Enterprise Agency offers a range of business start-up and business growth programmes including Go For It and Exploring Enterprise. In addition there are business clinics, informal advice and mentoring opportunities to network with other business owners. | £1,314,408
<strong>Upper Andersonstown Community Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI105782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105782)]<br>Listed below is the range of programmes, projects and activities the Forum delivers to achieve its objects UPPER ANDERSONSTOWN COMMUNITY FORUM (ACTIVITIES) WORK EXPERIENCE PLACEMENTS Childcare Early Years Afterschool Project Youth Club Administration - Caretaking and Cleaning VOLUNTEER PROJECT CHILDCARE PROECT Volunteering placements in youth project, childcare, management committee Big Lottery Afterschool Project Afterschool Creche Creche in support of training Surestart 2 year old programme COMMUNITY EDUCATION TRAINING PROGRAMME Driving Theory ICT (range of levels) Personal Development Irish Job search/CV building ESSENTIAL SKILLS PROJECCT Numeracy and Literacy Support Essential Skills school programme EMPLOYMENT AND JOB SUPPORT PROGRAMME Job Assist clinic/mentoring Referral to SIF opportunities WELFARE ADVICE PROJECT Advice/Support in relation to benefit entitlement LEAD PARTNER NEIGHBOURHOOD RENEWAL PARTNERSHIP Thematic (a) Community Infrastructure (b) Culture (c) Community Safety (d)Health (e)Economic Development UTOPIA SENIOR CITIZENS PROJECT Senior Citizens social, creative and health Programme DISABILTY GROUPS Sky’s the Limit Drama Group West Belfast Parkinson’s Support Group HEALTH Stress Management Health Promotion Days YOUTH CLUB 200-Place Youth Club (5-11 year olds &12-16 year olds) Extensive range of social , cultural and sporting activities EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAMME Provide alternatives to anti- social activity for12-21 year olds Education, training and placements SUMMER SCHEME 4 week programme of social, sporting and entertainment activities. SUMMER DAYCARE 8 weeks Primary 1 to Primary 7 ICT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT Accredited OCR Centre ECDL Cascade Career Development Software Beginner’s Computers CLAIT OCR Internet Technologies COMMUNITY NEWSLETTER Informing the community of our work Clubs/Schools www.upperandersonstown.com FOR MORE INFORMATION ON ANY OF THE PROJECTS CONTACT Patrick Wilson at 02890622201 | £1,276,794
<strong>GROWING SPACE</strong> [Charity number: [1071540](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071540)]<br>Growing Space provides rehabilitation, sheltered training and work experience within the community for adults with or recovering from mental health problems.  We offer two vocational training routes in horticulture and woodwork and also enable access to a work based learning programme, which includes IT training and personally tailored training in agreed key skill areas and confidence building. | £1,244,221
<strong>The Bytes Project</strong> [Charity number: [NI105711](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105711)]<br>Bytes uses creative ICT to engage and inspire the most socially excluded young people to realise their full potential and progress into education, training and employment. Our WHY Statement is: To inspire young people to hack their world for good. | £1,054,097


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>AFRICAN COMMUNITY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1087936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087936)]<br>ACS Provides holistic support  and teaching of the National Curriculum subjects for KS 1 to KS4,revision class for GCSE and SATs test, mentoring,ICT class and cultural awareness.   Saturday's 10.00am to 1.00pm.  Summer  Mon to Fri: 8.40am to 6pmFree Accredited adults classes ICT, Functional English,Maths, Vocational courses, Well-being activities : Mon-Fri.Family learning Parenting class | £245,649
<strong>Derganagh Training and Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102057)]<br>Provides and hosts activities for those in the local community. These have been suggested by the community in the initial Social Audit and at development meetings. Activities range as follows: Recreational training - Art/craft production, Calligraphy, Digital Photography, Art classes, Cookery classes, Coin collecting, Flower arranging, Fly fishing, Irish needlework, Formal training - Community policing, Drug abuse, First Aid, ICT for Rural Women, Managing Finance and Accounts, Social events - Community BBQ, Community Table Quizzes, Cultural trips, History lectures X-Box competition, Provision of facilities - The Association acquired the meeting hall and secured sufficient finance and voluntary labour to significantly develop this. The refurbishment included installation of insulation, provision of a new floor and complete repainting. The kitchen and toilet facilities have also been upgraded. A projector with speakers was installed to provide audio-visual output during training and social events. The Association offers transport facilities by having members trained to drive the local community transport mini-buses. This has been used to take parties on shopping trips and to sporting events. Also members of the Association effectively represent the community at local community workshops and development events. For example they have attended the local woman’s forum and the local Council “Community Planning Event” Many of the activities hosted by the Association could not be undertaken without financial input and a significant proportion of the time input to the Association is involved in securing funding. This includes raising money directly from the community and securing financial assistance from funding bodies. The Association has been very effective in this regard. In summary the Association provides an invaluable service which has ensured the development of the community and an enhanced standard of living for the residents therein. | £5,418
<strong>Mornington Community Project</strong> [Charity number: [NI102771](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102771)]<br>Mornington Community Project has had a presence on the Lower Ormeau Road for twenty-five years, acting as a shared space in the neighbourhood which offers youth provision, employability training, women’s projects, and pensioner services. We exist to improve the lives of residents from areas of high deprivation, cultural/ethnical diversity and division in Inner South Belfast. Our vision is “for a neighbourly community that is healthy, resilient and self-assured”. Our mission is “to provide a safe and welcoming space where people can enhance their quality of life”. Mornington aim to help the community to tackle a range of local issues, particularly in an education and employment sense, building the skills of local people to create job prospects or opportunities for self-employment. We offer a range of training and mentoring schemes, in particular those which are of benefit to young mothers in the area. These include, among others, programmes around multimedia, childcare, food services and mentoring / leadership training. We currently host; a community garden; women’s groups; young parent’s support groups; mentoring support; Surestart Bumps and Babies which is antenatal, relaxation and positive support group for mothers; GEMS computer training (often as a first step to a social economy training programme); and a variety of services for children and their families such as a community choir and cookery classes. We house Global Kitchen which includes food related training courses in the kitchen/café area for local people with English as a second language, and have recently formed a Foodbank to collect and distribute emergency food which has been donated to help those living in desperate times (often due to unemployment / underemployment, illness, benefit delay, debt, additional costs of living in the winter etc.). | £198,957
<strong>CHELMORTON WAR MEMORIAL INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [702110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702110)]<br>Village Hall used for all village activities,whist drives, parish council meetings,can be hired by outside bodies for weddings, craft fairs, parties etc.Uses occasionally by D.C.C for craft classes, computer classes | £4,630
<strong>THE NEW TESTAMENT ASSEMBLY</strong> [Charity number: [1109284](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109284)]<br>This charity provides :- (a) luncheon club (b) outreach befriending service (c) mental health drop in centre (d) home and respite care (e) computer classes (f) youth activities. | £26,371
<strong>Creggan Pre-School & Training Tust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100406](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100406)]<br>CPTT’s Family Support Centre provides the following childcare and educational/training services for families and residents in the Creggan area: Pre-School playgroup Crèche and respite crèche facilities Parent & Toddler sessions After Schools Club Programme for 2 yr olds in conjunction with Sure Start Edenballymore Training placements for apprentice childcare & administration workers/students Annual Pre-school Graduation Ceremony Extensive range of adult education courses including accredited and non - accredited courses e.g. , Essential Skills Numeracy, Literacy, ICT, Beginners - advanced IT and internet & email , healthy lifestyle intervention & prevention programmes, personal development, parenting programmes and job assist initiatives. We also provide Annual Education Presentation Ceremony International Woman’s Day celebrations DADS programme Annual Roadshow & publicity event Term time open days for course enrolment and feedback Both the Childcare Officer and Education Officer represent CPTT on various boards, sub groups and committees, these include Creggan Community Hub, Surestart Edenballymore, TRIAX Early Intervention sub-group, TRIAX health sub-group, Foyle Women's Information Network, Creggan Country park environmental forum and NWRC community education panel. | £198,953
<strong>THE RAINBOW CENTRE MORECAMBE</strong> [Charity number: [223933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-223933)]<br>The Rainbow Centre is a community centre for the Over 50s. We have about 20 different activities taking place throughout the week, which include Tai Chi, Art classes, sequence dancing, computer classes, short mat bowling etc. We operate a luncheon  club and provide meals for luncheon clubs both at the Centre and in the community. | £54,352
<strong>GROWING SPACE</strong> [Charity number: [1071540](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071540)]<br>Growing Space provides rehabilitation, sheltered training and work experience within the community for adults with or recovering from mental health problems.  We offer two vocational training routes in horticulture and woodwork and also enable access to a work based learning programme, which includes IT training and personally tailored training in agreed key skill areas and confidence building. | £1,244,221
<strong>Ballywalter Youth & Community Co-operative</strong> [Charity number: [NI101447](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101447)]<br>We own and manage Ballywalter Village Hall which has a Main Hall (Sport/Activity), Education Room, Computer Suite/Drop In Room, 2 Offices for Mtgs and 2 Business Units. We run a Youth Club twice a week for young people age 5 – 18 years, 50 registered. In partnership with locally based Action Group we run a Seniors Group fortnightly, 50 registered and we plan and co-ordinate community festival s and events throughout the year eg 3 Day Christmas Festival involving the whole of the community including the migrant community and visitors from other villages. Through our partnership working we encourage co-operation between local community groups, voluntary and statutory organisation for example. From our premises beneficiaries have access to Art and Craft classes, IT classes, ESOL Classes for Ethnic Minorities, Dog Training Club, Historic Society, Zuma, Health Initiatives, Camera Club, Women’s Institute, Care Workers and Age No Barrier. To up-skill members of local groups we have for example, Peace and Reconciliation work has been undertaken to address flags, emblems and racism in the Ballywalter area and we have run Keeping Children Safe Training delivered through SEHSCT to people throughout the Ards Peninsula. We have 13 user groups on a regular basis and ad hoc providing activities and services to local community and beyond. 250 people on a weekly basis benefit from our facility and activities on offer. MARA Project (Maximising Access to benefits, grants and services to Rural Areas, have also used our premises to raise awareness of opportunities available to individuals living in Ballywalter and area. There is daily access to the general public to find out information on local services available or use IT/Photocopying equipment. This facility and our group enables beneficiaries to learn new skills and share their own knowledge and skills with each other as well as reducing their isolation. | £14,891
<strong>BALSHAW LANE PARENTS, TEACHER AND FRIENDS ASSOCIATION CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1200868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200868)]<br>Charity setup to raise funds to support the students of Balshaw Lane Community Primary School, Euxton, Chorley. Raising funds to support their educational needs including transport costs for school trips, library books, school learning resources, iPads and ICT equipment as well as many other things to help with their development needs. Our activities are mainly carried out on the school premises | £18,515
