# Basic skills `ED301`

Basic skills is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the Training subcategory.

112 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.06% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(basic skills?|maths? and english|english and maths?|illitera(t|cy))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 31 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 43 | 0.06%
£100k - £250k | 11 | 0.05%
£250k - £500k | 7 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 6 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 102 | 0.05%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 96 | 0.06%
ccni | 9 | 0.13%
oscr | 7 | 0.03%
Total | 112 | 0.06%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CITY LITERARY INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [803007](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803007)]<br>PROVIDE LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES TO OVER 50,000 PEOPLE A YEAR. OFFER GUIDANCE & GIVE FINANCIAL SUPPORT. HELP ADULTS TRANSFORM THEIR LIVES THROUGH LEARNING FROM BASIC SKILLS IN ENGLISH AND MATHS TO SKILLS FOR WORK, FROM PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ENRICHMENT, PROFESSIONAL ADVANCEMENT OR CAREER CHANGE. | £18,274,000
<strong>The Conservation Volunteers</strong> [Charity number: [SC039302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039302)]<br>1.To conserve the environment for the benefit of the public, including: 1.1. The conservation and maintenance of the character and amenity of rural, urban and inner city areas. 1.2. The maintenance and management of nature reserves and other sites of biological, scientific or environmental importance. 2.To educate the public in the principles and practice of conservation through volunteering and community support. 3. To advance the education of the public through the provision of training. In particular:- 3.1. In practical conservation skills. 3.2. Basic Skills. 3.3. Skills to improve employment prospects. 4. To develop the capacity and skills, primarily through volunteer opportunities, of the public at large andlor those who by reason of youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or economic and social circumstances, have need of such facilities with the object of improving their conditions of life. | £11,061,000
<strong>EAST LONDON ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY TRAINING</strong> [Charity number: [299186](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299186)]<br>Training, Education and Employment Support for disadvantaged adults and young people, in particular the long-term unemployed, refugee and migrant women, and young people not in employment, education or training. Services include vocational training, English language and basic skills, advice and guidance, welfare support and volunteering and work experience programmes. | £3,601,458
<strong>ACTION TUTORING</strong> [Charity number: [1147175](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147175)]<br>Action Tutoring provides free tuition to pupils from low-income backgrounds through partnerships with schools, using high quality volunteer tutors, aiming to ensure pupils are equipped in English and maths to be able to progress to further education, employment or training. The charity operates in the following cities: London, Birmingham, Bristol, Liverpool, Sheffield, Brighton and Newcastle. | £3,565,661
<strong>PETTY POOL</strong> [Charity number: [1174082](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174082)]<br>- To educate and train young people with learning disabilities including vocational and basic skills and personal development, preparing them for possible work placements and employment and encouraging independent living - To Promote the personal development of young people, including those with learning disabilities, through the provision of challenging activities. | £2,989,702
<strong>ROOM TO READ UK LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1125803](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125803)]<br>Room to Read's goal is to create a world free from illiteracy and gender inequality. We help children in low-income communities develop literacy skills and a habit of reading, and support girls to build skills to succeed in school and negotiate key life decisions.  We have benefitted more than 23 million children across 20 countries and over 40,700 communities. | £2,132,122
<strong>MINIK KARDES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1067893](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1067893)]<br>To provide full time bi-lingual nursery education for children between 3 months to 5 years of age, whose parents are working, studying or disadvantaged.  We also provide outreach service to Turkish speaking community, this includes children education, parents learning basic skills, parenting skills, translation and interpretation, set up workshops and seminars. | £1,653,864
<strong>GET FURTHER LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1190809](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190809)]<br>To advance education for the public benefit by providing students who are socially or economically disadvantaged with extra tuition in English and maths in order to help prevent them from dropping out of education, organising training to improve the quality of teaching for these students, and through the provision of such other mentoring and support as deemed appropriate. | £1,092,302
<strong>Ballybeen Women's Centre Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102040](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102040)]<br>Education and Training: BWC delivers a broad and varied programme including essential basic skills, pre-vocational, ICT, GCSE, pre-access and other accredited courses. The programme recognises and addresses the many barriers facing women who wish to return to education/training: Low self-esteem; Accessible, affordable training/education; Flexible and relevant training/education programme; Affordable, quality childcare; Supportive learning environment. The education and training programme is targeted at women who have been out of the labour market for some time, who have little or no recognised qualifications and women who are currently in low paid employment and who are seeking to improve their employability through the acquisition of new skills and qualifications thus enhancing employability and opportunities for entry into the labour market therefore addressing the gender gap in employment. Childcare and Family Support Services: BWC operates four childcare facilities: Creche; Toddler group; Pre-school; Afterschool We also offer a comprehensive range of support services to families in need. Health Promotion: BWC delivers a comprehensive range of women’s health courses and one-off monthly health events. Peer Education Project - delivers health and personal development programmes to young people between the ages of 10-25 years. It also delivers accredited training programmes that equips young people with skills and knowledge to become volunteer peer educators within the project. The PEP operates an schools based programmes, an outreach and support programme and weekly drop-in targeting detached youth. Culture and Diversity: BWC works on a single identity, cross community and cross border basis to promote good relations and increase knowledge and awareness of culture and diversity. We deliver a broad range of programmes and activities for all age groups. | £902,813
<strong>SUTTON MENTAL HEALTH FOUNDATION CHARITY COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1069945](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069945)]<br>Sutton Mental Health Foundation provides:- A drop-in for people with mental health problems living independently in the London Borough of Sutton to find friendship and support in a relaxed and unstructured atmosphere- Peer Support and Recovery training- Welfare and benefits advice- Basic skills computer training | £667,668


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF STAFFORD KNOT TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1102475](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102475)]<br>Members (often supported by friends and relatives) actively volunteer time, energy and expertese to organise, and ensure the success of, projects and fundraising activities.  Supporting a wide range of local, national and international causes, in the process, many hundreds (if not thousands) of people receive help in the face of poverty, illness or illiteracy... disaster, disease or destitution. | £5,894
<strong>Horn of Africa People's Aid Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101637](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101637)]<br>Horn of Africa People's Aid Northern Ireland (HAPANI) was formed in 2011 as a non-governmental organisation. HAPANI supports people from Djibouti, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Somalia and the Republic of Sudan and South Sudan. Furthermore, it does so regardless of ethnicity, religion, nationality, gender or social origin. The organisation was formed by people from the Horn of Africa (HoA) community and is supported by local residents in Northern Ireland. HAPANI aims to fulfil the lives of people from HoA communities through raising awareness and funds to support people in need of practical assistance. In the past, the organisation has worked in connection with other service providers in Northern Ireland providing support to local people. HAPANI has conducted its own research relating to refugees and immigrants travelling from Africa to Northern Ireland. Included in this research was a needs assessment for the Institute for Conflict Research, conducted by Dr Orna Young (available on request). HAPANI and its volunteers aspire to assist all people and family members from the HoA community by providing free services. Thus far, HAPANI has set up a number of supportive services for the welfare of vulnerable people and the hard to reach, including; weekly sports clubs for HoA children to help them integrate into the ‘host’ community; English and Maths classes to improve basic literacy and mathematical skills, free courses facilitated by HAPANI translator volunteers; A drop-in centre for local HoA people and the community, open 5 days a week to the public for general enquires. In general, HAPANI wishes to develop the relationship between HoA community members and the ‘host’ community, through improving HoA individuals’ fluency in English, encouraging the pursuit of justice for crimes against HoA individuals and providing translation services to HoA refugees in Northern Ireland. | £203,006
<strong>EDEN WESTWOOD COMMUNITY PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1149378](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149378)]<br>Working with young people not in education, employment or training - basic skills sessions, assistance seeking employment & application/interview process. Working with various nationalities/ethnicities - primarily young people. Assistance in English language skills, application processes for college/university. Mentoring sessions, Run.Sports/Recreational sessions & general events for families. | £51,663
<strong>WALLINGTON SDA HUB</strong> [Charity number: [1193384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193384)]<br>To advance the education of children and young people by providing free supplementary educational lessons in Science, Technology, English and Maths.Providing emergency food, essential toiletries and household items to individuals and families in need and/or for distribution by charities or other organisations working to prevent or relieve poverty. | £13,886
<strong>Rainbow Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC037463](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037463)]<br>1) The objective of the association are the relief of poverty, sickness, illiteracy and distress for the benefit of the asylum seekers and the community in general 2)  The advancement of the community by means of encouraging and promoting the servies within the area of benefit.  This will be done without distinction of political, religious and other opinions by associating with the local authorities, voluntary organisations and residents in a common effort | £5,214
<strong>TOBIN CENTRE (MOORTOWN) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [NI103623](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103623)]<br>Tobin Youth Centre (Moortown) Ltd is a community focal point built to develop a variety of activities for the local community. It provides physical activities, recreational activities, educational courses and classes and leisure activities. Its main function is to ensure that the young people of the area of benefit have an attractive programme of youth activities in their own centre therefore avoiding the need to travel many miles to other youth clubs in an area poorly served by public transport. It also offers activities for parents of both an educational and recreational nature. It offers basic skills courses, creative writing courses, art and crafts, circuit training, ballroom dancing, yoga, and has a weekly bingo session for the benefit of the less active more elderly population. The centre is used regularly for birthday parties and for one off community events at set times such as Christmas and Halloween. The centre sets out to develop the personal social and life skills of the community encouraging improved physical health and well being, alert to the dangers of mental health in a rural and socially isolated community. | £165,850
<strong>GET FURTHER LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1190809](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190809)]<br>To advance education for the public benefit by providing students who are socially or economically disadvantaged with extra tuition in English and maths in order to help prevent them from dropping out of education, organising training to improve the quality of teaching for these students, and through the provision of such other mentoring and support as deemed appropriate. | £1,092,302
<strong>STREET KIDS EDUCATION INITIATIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1201804](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201804)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE CIO IS:FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN IN PAKISTAN, IN PARTICULAR CHILDREN WHO ARE NOT IN FORMAL EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS, THROUGH THE PROVISION OF TUITION IN KEY ACADEMIC SUBJECTS SUCH AS ENGLISH AND MATHS, ASSISTING THEM INTO FORMAL EDUCATION BY PROVIDING ADVICE, ASSISTANCE AND PREPARATION FOR ADMISSIONS TESTS TO FORMAL SCHOOLS AND IN PROVIDING GENERAL SUPPORT SUCH AS THE PROVISION OF DAILY MEALS. | 
<strong>LAPIDO MEDIA</strong> [Charity number: [1121301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121301)]<br>Lapido Media champions religious literacy in the media at all levels and across all reporting genres.  Our central mission is to help journalists and media workers to overcome blind spots on religion and belief.  We equip and train journalists, media workers and faith communities to address the challenge of religious illiteracy. | £163,238
<strong>GHULAMAN-E-MUSTAFA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1162534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162534)]<br>Ghulaman-e-Musfata Trust strives to alleviate suffering, hunger, illiteracy and diseases in Dadyal, Kotli, Sehnsa and Gojar Khan without regard to colour, race or creed and to provide aid in a compassionate and dignified manner. | £24,658
