# Employability training `ED302`

Employability training is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the Training subcategory.

4,486 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.22% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(work ?-?(support|preparation|placements?|experience)|employ(ment|ability)|unemploy(ed|ment)|entrepreneur(ial)?|activation programmes?|(labour|jobs?) market)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 981 | 1.30%
£10k - £100k | 1,229 | 1.80%
£100k - £250k | 589 | 2.83%
£250k - £500k | 456 | 4.61%
£500k - £1m | 325 | 5.28%
£1m - £10m | 475 | 5.59%
Over £10m | 81 | 3.96%
Total | 4,136 | 2.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 3,256 | 1.91%
oscr | 891 | 3.58%
ccni | 339 | 4.71%
Total | 4,486 | 2.22%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind</strong> [Charity number: [SC038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038110)]<br>'	To take or promote measures for the prevention and cure of blindness in the countries and territories specified under article 4 of this our charter and for the education, rehabilitation, training and employment of the blind in those countries and territories and '	To foster collaboration among organisations concerned with blindness and its prevention and to promote and where appropriate, to participate in national, regional and international activities likely to prevent blindness and benefit the blind in any part of the world. | £313,352,000
<strong>THE SHAW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287785)]<br>Shaw Trust provides services to people who are disabled or otherwise disadvantaged, principally to help them find employment or to develop work and independence skills. | £302,005,000
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £302,005,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>Construction Industry Training Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC044875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044875)]<br>For the purpose of making better provision for the training of persons for employment in any activities of the construction industry | £247,298,000
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>Royal National Institute of Blind People</strong> [Charity number: [SC039316](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039316)]<br>The objects for which the Institute is established and incorporated are to promote the better education, training, employment and welfare of Blind and partially sighted people, and generally to watch over and protect the interests of Blind and partially sighted people and to prevent blindness. | £106,593,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £99,142,000
<strong>HUMANKIND CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [515755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515755)]<br>Humankind Charity specialise in working with people with complex, multiple needs and are committed to multi disciplinary working, within our own teams and with external agencies. We work with disadvantaged people and communities. Our main areas of work focus on Accommodation & Housing Support, Substance misuse, Families and young people, education, training and employment. | £80,528,637


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PELTON FELL COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1129699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129699)]<br>Activities include:Family learning for 0 - 5Lifestyle and Exercise classesAdvice, Support and Guidance on Employment, Benefit and other mattersOlder peoples groupsAdult learning coursesIT services for residentsYoung peoples groups 6 - 12, 13 - 19Health SessionsEnvironmental projects.Sports activities | £91,119
<strong>Biggar Arts Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC050058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050058)]<br>The objects of the company are:  To advance arts, culture and education through the provision of a high-quality programme of arts, cultural and educational events, activities, arts festivals and facilities - for people living in and visiting the Biggar area.  The advancement of arts and culture and education in arts and culture by encouraging and fostering appreciation and interest in the enjoyment of and participation in all types of arts and cultural activities.  To support, nurture, encourage and promote emerging and established artists, writers, poets, actors, dancers and musicians, including members of the general public of all ages and all levels of ability, skill and experience who are interested in the arts by providing a venue for rehearsals, performances, hosting concerts, facilitating or providing tuition, providing teaching and classes for rehearsals, education, recreation and creativity in respect of the arts, the provision of gallery space and any other related use regarding the creation and performance of the arts and culture.  To promote the benefit of the inhabitants and in particular the young, elderly and disabled, of Biggar and its environs without distinction of sex, sexuality, political, religious or other opinions by associating the local statutory authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitants in a common effort to advance arts and education and to provide facilities, or assist in the provision of facilities, in the interest of social welfare for recreation and other leisure-time occupation so that their condition of life may be improved.  To provide a community hub and a welcoming and recreational activity space to support the broad range of artistic and community activity in the Biggar area for the benefit of the local and wider community.    To create specific training, educational, employment and work experience opportunities where appropriate for those involved or interested in arts, cultural or educational art activities for community and rural development.  To provide an arts and educational programme, which will be based in the Biggar Arts Centre alongside potential outreach projects in schools, colleges and community facilities in the local area.  Provide for the provision of facilities for the education of all age groups of the public in relation to teaching, exhibiting and demonstrating art and the performing arts generally and making the same generally available to the public as a whole.   | 
<strong>THE MASON FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1150662](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150662)]<br>Our mission is to support/connect and empower communities most at need, supporting them to come together by providing simple solutions to tackle inequality. The Community Mile is a programme that engages those least active, into community led physical activities. Propel is a programme to support young people who are neurodivergent and/or with additional learning needs into meaningful employment. | £300,364
<strong>AXMINSTER COMMUNITY SHED</strong> [Charity number: [1208419](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208419)]<br>THE AIMS (OBJECTS) OF THE AXMINSTER COMMUNITY SHED ARE:A. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE (PARTICULARLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THE RETIRED), WITHIN AXMINSTERAND THE SURROUNDING AREA, FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED. B. RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY THROUGH THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN WHICH THEY CAN MEET TO UNDERTAKE, JOINTLY OR INDIVIDUALLY, CREATIVE, PHYSICAL, OR RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES, INCLUDING LEARNING AND SHARING NEW SKILLS. C. TO ENABLE MEMBERS OF THE AXMINSTER COMMUNITY SHED TO LEARN REWARDING NEW SKILLS AND SHARE THOSE THAT THEY MAY ALREADY HAVEAND SUPPORT EACH OTHER SOCIALLY. D. TO PROVIDE A FACILITY TO WHICH APPROPRIATE LOCAL AGENCIES MAY WISH TO REFER CLIENTS, WHO MAY BENEFIT FROM ATTENDING THE COMMUNITY SHED. REFERRALS MUST BE AGREED ON A CASE-BY-CASE BASIS, TO ENSURE RISKS ARE ASSESSED AND THE APPROPRIATE SUPPORT IS AVAILABLE FOR THE REFERRED INDIVIDUAL.E. TO SUPPORT THE WIDER COMMUNITY IN AND AROUND AXMINSTER BY TACKLING AND PARTICIPATING IN SOCIALLY AND ENVIRONMENTALLY BENEFICIAL PROJECTS. F. TO ENSURE THAT ALL ACTIVITIES TAKING PLACE AT THE COMMUNITY SHED OR IN OUTREACH PROJECTS WITHIN THE COMMUNITY ARE CONDUCTED WITH CLOSE OBSERVANCE TO HEALTH AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THESE OBJECTS, 'SOCIALLY EXCLUDED' MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; BEREAVEMENT OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL). | 
<strong>THAMES REACH CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1166311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166311)]<br>Thames Reach works with homeless and vulnerable adults to find decent homes, build supportive relationships and lead fulfilling lives. We specialise in supporting people with complex needs, like poor mental health and substance misuse. Our services include street outreach, hostels, specialist supported housing, prevention work, health initiatives and a range of employment and education schemes. | £23,703,211
<strong>Chichester Music Society</strong> [Charity number: [1106962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1106962)]<br>PROVISION OF HIGH QUALITY LECTURE-RECITALS AND CONCERTS AT LOW COST TO LOCAL PEOPLE THROUGH A MEMBERSHIP SCHEME OPEN TO ALL.  SUPPORT FOR UNIVERSITY MUSIC STUDENTS THOUGH THE AWARD OF PERFORMANCE PRIZES AND BURSARIES FOR DESERVING GRADUATES GOING FORWARD TO PROFESSIONAL TRAINING FOR EMPLOYMENT AS MUSICIANS AND TEACHERS. | £5,333
<strong>Dates-n-Mates</strong> [Charity number: [SC052107](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052107)]<br>3 CHARITABLE PURPOSES and POWERS The Charitable Purposes of the Charity ('the Charitable Purposes') are to provide relief to those in need and advance the human rights and wellbeing of young adults (13+) and adults (18+) who have learning disabilities, by providing a wide range of dating, friendship opportunities and related skills development opportunities through membership, volunteering and employment, thereby. 3.1.1 reducing social isolation of those individuals and addressing social and emotional needs. and 3.1.2 advancing citizenship, including the rights and responsibilities of individual citizens including. i. combating of stereotypes and prejudices and promoting awareness of the capabilities of persons with disabilities. ii. preventing discrimination on the basis of disability relating to marriage, family and personal relations. iii. the right to be included in the community, to choose where and with whom to live. iv. to promote participation in cultural life, recreation, leisure and sport. and v. identifying and eliminating barriers and ensuring that persons with disabilities can access their environment, transportation, public facilities and services. through the development of opportunities for people with learning disabilities, enabling them to be more active in their communities by involving individuals in community activities, to include volunteering. | 
<strong>North Glasgow Community Food Initiative</strong> [Charity number: [SC036842](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036842)]<br>(a)The prevention of or to relieve poverty, particularly among the residents of North Glasgow (“the Operating Area”) including through promoting and taking action to address food justice and food insecurity. (b)To advance education, particularly among residents of the Operating Area (c)To preserve, protect and improve the mental and physical health of individuals resident in the Operating Area, and to assist in the relief of ill health, and the provision of health education for such individuals (d)To promote the physical and mental health of people (and particularly those resident in the Operating Area) who suffer from mental and/or physical disability, illness or impairment or have particular needs by reason of current or past drug, solvent and/or alcohol abuse (e)To promote training, particularly among residents of the Operating Area, and with particular reference to skills which will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment (f)To encourage, stimulate and support volunteering principally in the Operating Area (g)To promote the rehabilitation of offenders and ex-offenders by the provision of education and training, and the promotion or support of any project or scheme directed towards the prevention of crime or delinquency (h)To work towards the elimination of discrimination (whether on the grounds of race, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation or otherwise), to promote and support equality of opportunity for all residents of the Operating Area irrespective of race, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation and to promote ham10ny between peoples of different ethnic, racial, social, religious and other groups within the framework of a multi-racial and inclusive society. (i)The advancement of environmental protection or improvement.  | £491,203
<strong>CASTLEPOINT BANGLADESHI CULTURAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1146199](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146199)]<br>Activities are as follows:  Supplementary education classes for young children Home work tuition and mother tongue  classes for the KS2-KS4 age group, Advice, Information and guidance services for local elderly, pensioners and unemployed people;   Inter faith activities involving people from different faith group such as Eid, Dewali and Christmas festival; Prayer sessions for local Muslim peopl | £5,137
<strong>Veterans into Logistics</strong> [Charity number: [SC053268](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053268)]<br>The objects of the CIO are, for the public benefit,   a. the prevention or relief of poverty.   b. the relief of unemployment for the public benefit in such ways as may be fit, including assistance to find employment.    in particular but not exclusively by supporting ex-forces, individuals with convictions, unemployed, people on a low income (less than £18,000 per annum), who require assistance in gaining HGV licences and support into paid employment. | 
