# Training `ED300`

Training is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the Training subcategory.

15,840 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 7.80% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(training)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,372 | 6.13%
£10k - £100k | 4,915 | 7.02%
£100k - £250k | 1,944 | 8.82%
£250k - £500k | 1,242 | 11.48%
£500k - £1m | 897 | 13.41%
£1m - £10m | 1,179 | 13.10%
Over £10m | 226 | 10.39%
Total | 14,775 | 7.69%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 12,131 | 7.09%
oscr | 2,667 | 10.77%
ccni | 1,042 | 14.49%
Total | 15,840 | 7.80%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £315,754,000
<strong>DOGS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1167663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167663)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accommodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms. Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices. Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £143,067,945
<strong>Waythrough</strong> [Charity number: [515755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515755)]<br>Waythrough was formed from the merger of  Humankind and Richmond Fellowship. We work with people with complex, multiple needs and disadvantages and are committed to multi disciplinary working within our own teams and with external agencies. Our main areas of work focus are substance misuse, mental health challenges, residential support, families and young people, training and employment. | £101,448,502
<strong>Human Appeal </strong> [Charity number: [SC046481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046481)]<br>The Objects of the Organisation are: - (a) The prevention or relief of poverty anywhere in the world by providing grants, items and services to individuals in need and/or charities or other organisations working to prevent or relieve poverty. (b) The prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship anywhere in the world by providing or assisting in the provision of education, training, healthcare projects and all the necessary support designed to enable individuals to generate a sustainable income and be self-sufficient. (c) The relief of financial need and suffering amongst victims of natural or other kinds of disasters in the form of money or other means deemed suitable for persons, bodies, organisations and/or countries affected, including the provision of medical aid. | £90,246,297
<strong>National Oceanography Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC049896](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049896)]<br>The company's objects are restricted specifically, in each case only for the public benefit to:  4.1.1 the advancement of science, in particular enhancing the scientific knowledge and understanding of oceanographic sciences, and the ocean and its interaction with the earth system, and facilitating the use and application of that knowledge and understanding, particularly by:  4.1.1.1 undertaking and causing to be undertaken research including through technology development, experimentation, analysis, long-term ocean observation, monitoring, mapping, survey and modelling of a high international standard and disseminating the useful results of research.  4.1.1.2 Providing access to scientific research and technology development facilities and infrastructure including research ships and other measurement platforms and systems to the ocean science community.  4.1.1.3 Obtaining, managing, curating and providing access to digital data, samples and other specimens.  4.1.1.4 Being the UK national focus for ocean science, exercising leadership for and promoting co-operation with the wider United Kingdom science community, and providing national and international visibility and expert representation for oceanographic sciences.  4.1.1.6 Innovation or by encouraging and supporting innovation.  4.1.2 The advancement of education in oceanographic sciences, and the ocean and its interaction with the earth system and relationship with people, particularly by:  4.1.2.1 Contributing to the education (particularly postgraduate higher education), training and development of the next generation of scientists, engineers, technologists including the supervision of postgraduate research students.  4.1.2.2 Supporting the building of marine research scientific and technical capacity in other countries around the world.  4.1.2.3 Communicating with and engaging with the public in relation to ocean science and technology through seminars, talks, leaflets, papers and other means.  | £86,213,000
<strong>NATIONAL OCEANOGRAPHY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1185265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185265)]<br>NOC is a marine science research and technology institution which undertakes integrated sea level science, coastal and deep ocean research and technology development. NOC contribute to the advancement of scientific knowledge of the ocean and support education and training of scientists, engineers and marine professionals and engaging the public with the science of the ocean and its implications. | £86,213,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY INTERNATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1000566](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000566)]<br>THE CHARITY'S MAIN ACTIVITIES ARE TO CONTINUE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION THROUGH EVANGELISTIC OUTREACH, PROVIDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE TO SALVATION ARMY TERRITORIES, FACILITATING INTERNATIONAL PERSONNEL TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT, CRISIS RELIEF, WORKING IN COMMUNITIES TO IMPROVE ACCESS TO QUALITY PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES AS CLOSE TO THE FAMILY UNIT AND FIGHTING HUMAN TRAFFICKING. | £85,972,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [SC040009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040009)]<br>The relief of poverty and sickness among those persons generally who are dependent upon or affected by addiction to narcotic drugs and other similar substances or compounds of possible potential or suspected danger to the individual and the community (hereinafter referred to as drugs).  (ii)	The relief of poverty and sickness among parents of children affected by dependence upon or addiction to drugs and among families, any members of which are dependent upon or affected by addiction to drugs.  (iii)	The education and training of the individual and the community at large and advancement of education and training in and research into the danger arising from the habitual or other use of drugs together with publication of literature relating to dependence upon or addiction to drugs and of the results of any such research.  (iv)	The prevention of dependence upon or addiction to drugs, the consultation, treatment and care of those suffering from, and rehabilitation of those relieved from, dependence upon or addiction to drugs PROVIDED ALWAYS that any such treatment as aforesaid shall be carried out only under the supervision of a duly qualified medical practitioner under the National Health Service and wherever there occurs any reference in this Deed to treatment such treatment shall be construed as so limited. | £80,609,000
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £61,319,854
<strong>The King’s Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041198)]<br>(i) To promote by all charitable means the mental, spiritual, moral and physical development and improvement of young people and to provide opportunities for them to develop their full capacities and enable them to become responsible members of society so that their conditions of life may be improved, to include: (a) providing facilities for young people for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare.  (b) advancing the education of young people by the provision, encouragement and promotion of education, instruction or training in professions, vocations, industries, crafts, trades or the skills needed in employment.  (c) relieving poverty amongst young people through the provision of assistance (including financial assistance) and encouragement whilst their education is being advanced as aforesaid or whilst they are in the process of establishing new businesses or preparing for entering upon or engaging in a profession, trade, craft or service.  (d) arranging periods of voluntary work in the community. and  (e) for the benefit of the public encouraging and assisting young people in their understanding of and practical action in support of the natural and built environment.  (ii) To promote and conduct research into social conditions affecting young people and the mental, spiritual, moral and physical needs of young people and to publish the useful results of such research.  (iii) To carry out any such approved objects (as defined by Regulation 33 of the Landfill Tax Regulations 1996 or any amendment thereto) as are exclusively charitable and to encourage young people particularly to do so.  (iv) To support such charity or charities or such charitable purpose or purposes as the Council shall in its absolute discretion think fit  | £58,180,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Girvan Community Garden</strong> [Charity number: [SC040969](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040969)]<br>To advance development and regeneration of the area of land situated at rear of Knockcushan House, 25 Knockcushan St, Girvan, and other areas of land in Girvan and surrounding villages in South Ayrshire, as defined below ('the Operating Area') by all or any of the following means: a. the creation of a community garden for use by the community of the Operating Area in the area of land situated at the rear of Knockcushan House. b. volunteering, training and employment opportunities by the provision of workspace, buildings and/or land for use on favourable terms. c. the provision of public artwork and public events for charitable purposes, and d. such other means as may from time to time be determined, subject to the directors having satisfied themselves that such other means can reasonably be regarded as being in direct furtherance of a charitable purpose (within the meaning of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005, including any statutory modification or re-enactment of the relevant provisions of that Act). (2) To provide (or to assist in the provision of) recreational horticultural facilities particularly within the Operating Area, and organise (or to assist in the organisation of) recreational horticultural activities particularly within the Operating Area, with such facilities/activities being available to members of the public at large and/or those who, by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities with the object of improving their conditions of life. | £65,319
<strong>THE TRAINING AND CONFERENCE CENTRE FOR THE MEMBERS OF THE BOYS' BRIGADE IN THE NORTH WEST OF ENGLAND AND THE ISLE OF MAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1097985](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097985)]<br>Please refer to annual report | £111,640
<strong>CITY OF TRUTH CHRISTIAN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1145846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145846)]<br>Regular public worship, prayer, bible study, preaching and teaching the gospel; Mentoring of young people in a well rounded and positive manner; Education and training for Christian and community service; Giving and encouraging pastoral care; Supporting and encouraging charitable social action in the United Kingdom and abroad; Encouraging relationships with others in the larger community | £87,226
<strong>FAMILY CHAPEL INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1115168](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115168)]<br>ORGANISATION OF RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES FOR THE COMMUNITY INCLUDING BIBLICAL TEACHING, COMMUNITY WORK, HELPING THE NEEDY AND TRAINING MEMBERS TO BE GOOD CITIZEN AND GIVING OPPORTUNITY TO THE COMMUNITY TO EXPRESS THEIR SPIRITUAL BELIEFS. | £5,100
<strong>OPPORTUNITY INTERNATIONAL UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [1107713](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107713)]<br>The charity through its Implementing Partners provides microfinance services to the poor, mostly in Africa. The microfinance services range from providing a safe and secure place for the poor to safeguard their savings, financial education, training as well as microfinance loans. | £1,797,692
<strong>FOUNTAIN OF PEACE MINISTRIES OF THE CHERUBIM AND SERAPHIM CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1108499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108499)]<br>1. To advance the Christian faith,the teachings of Christ through the power of the Holy Spirit.2. Hold healing services, baptisms, weddings, Holy Communion and other services.3. To advance educational provision according to the needs of all age within the community.4. Fountain Trust- to provide the Drop-In Centre to support social and emotional needs , Training Centre for future development. | £262,361
<strong>KAROY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1132942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132942)]<br>TO PROMOTE THE BENEFIT OF THE PEOPLE OF GHANA, WEST AFRICA AND OTHERS BY:A) THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING.B) THE RELIEF OF POVERTY,SICKNESS AND DISTRESSC) THE PROMOTION OF GOOD HEALTHD) THE PROVISION OF RECREATIONAL FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | £9,054
<strong>Caithness Motocross Club Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC040688](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040688)]<br>a) To promote and encourage the sport of Motocross in the far north of Scotland. b)  To organise and promote both social and competitive events including training/practice day opportunities for potential new members. c)  To encourage new members to join and promote a better image of Motocross to the public. | 
<strong>Liber8 (Lanarkshire Limited)</strong> [Charity number: [SC038836](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038836)]<br>The relief of those in need by reason of addiction problems (whether expenenced by themselves or thew family members), the advancement of health (including measures to address issues of addiction ), and the advancement of education in relation to Issues associated wth addiction and in parhcular. (a) To provide for the benefit of the pubhc, assistance through counselling, support and educahon to individuals who have expenenced problems related to addictlve behaviours (b) To provide for the benefit of the public, assistance through counselling, support and education to the partners and other family members of those who experience addiction related problems (c) To provide counseIling, support and education to indrvlduais who present with addiction related problems (d) To raise awareness of alcohol through the provision of educatton and training  to professionals working  in Health, Soclal Services, Educahon, the Pnson Service, the Voluntary Sector and any other agency wth an lnterest in alcohol or the wider addictlons field. (e) To design and provide specialist day programmes, residential programmes and other group interventions to meet the needs of individuals with long term hlstories of additions related problems (f) To provide specialist semces, including residential accommodation  to individuals who are homeless services, including residentlal accommodation to individuals whose mental health has been adversely affected by addiction (h) To promote the  prevention and early detection of addiction related problems and to assist individuals experiencing such problems (i) To contribute to the public health agenda by challengmg attitudes which relate to the social necessity of drinking safe and sensible  drinking | £1,096,841
<strong>SALAMANDER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1143381](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143381)]<br>Salamander aims to protect, promote and enhance the health and rights of people particularly, but not exclusively, marginalised by societies worldwide as a result of their gender, HIV status or sexual and reproductive health. We conduct: global advocacy work; related research; and we coordinate the global Community of Practice of users of the Stepping Stones training programme on gender and HIV. | £24,645
