# ESOL `ED303`

ESOL is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](/data/ukcat/ED) categoryand the Training subcategory.

257 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.13% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(e\.?s\.?o\.?l|english (class(es)?|lessons?)|tefl|teaching english)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 61 | 0.07%
£10k - £100k | 107 | 0.16%
£100k - £250k | 28 | 0.14%
£250k - £500k | 30 | 0.33%
£500k - £1m | 13 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.10%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 247 | 0.13%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 236 | 0.14%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
oscr | 8 | 0.03%
Total | 257 | 0.13%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1086183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086183)]<br>PROVIDES SUPPORT FOR BUSINESS & ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT; PROVIDES ADULT LEARNING, INCLUDING APPRENTICESHIPS & ESOL; PROVIDES ASSISTANCE FOR JOB SEEKERS BY WORKING WITH EMPLOYERS & THROUGH EMPLOYMENT SUPPORT INITIATIVES; PROVIDES CHILDCARE & FAMILY SUPPORT THROUGH THE HALIFAX CENTRAL & UPPER VALLEY AREA CHILDREN'S CENTRES & OTHER PROJECTS; PROVIDES WELLBEING ACTIVITIES AND SERVICES. | £4,413,690
<strong>NEW HORIZON YOUTH CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [276943](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276943)]<br>Day centre for young people age 16-21: benefits, housing advice, careers advice,education&training, employment, IT,ESOL, literacy, numeracy, cookery, art classes, drama classes, gym & fitness sessions, music production, women's group, men' group, counselling, nurse, mental health support, female sex worker project, street outreach, prison work,volunteer project, laundry/showers/clothes, free lunch | £2,941,308
<strong>PRAXIS COMMUNITY PROJECTS</strong> [Charity number: [1078945](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1078945)]<br>Open-access advice service; Vocational training including ESOL courses; Housing support programmes; Advice and casework support for refugee and new migrant communities; Mentoring and group work; Interpreting services, Human Rights advocacy, Working with  partner organisations to tackle homelessness and destitution , Community development work with new migrant communities. | £2,088,746
<strong>MUSLIM WELFARE HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1149833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149833)]<br>REFLECTING THE AIMS OF THE ORGANISATION, THE ACTIVITIES OF MWH INCLUDE- ADULT EDUCATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES - INCLUDING ESOL, IT, CAREERS ADVICE- BUSINESS SUPPORT, TRAINING AND JOB SEARCH ASSISTANCE- RELIGIOUS AND CULTURAL SERVICES - ARABIC CLASSES AND COMMUNITY SOCIAL FORUMS- EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT FOR CHILDREN - MOTHER TONGUE AND SUPPLEMENTARY SCHOOLS | £1,482,025
<strong>THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [281859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281859)]<br>The charity's object and its principal activity continues to be that of providing educational services to foreign students, including the provision of scholarships and the development of materials and methods of teaching English as a foreign language. | £1,383,674
<strong>QUEENS CRESCENT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1096655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096655)]<br>We provide facilities & services to disadvantaged people across 5 community facilities. Core activities include: Apprenticeship and job training opportunities, remedial education services, English classes (ESOL), cook & eat, healthy living programme, youth club, nursery, older people services, keep fit class, gym, under 5's drop in, universal youth provision, sports, IT training & DBS services. | £1,305,503
<strong>CONSONANT LTD</strong> [Charity number: [291789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-291789)]<br>Legal advice provision, community education, empowerment, media and policy work, nursery, employment and training services, health promotion, volunteering, IT and ESOL classes | £1,180,854
<strong>LEWISHAM REFUGEE AND MIGRANT NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1058631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058631)]<br>Information and advice on asylum, immigration, welfare benefits, housing, employment, access to health, education and  employment. Counselling and therapeutic activities for vulnerable asylum seeking, migrant and refugee  women who survived gender based violence, ESOL provision and other integration activities,  mental health prevention and policy campaign and advocacy. | £1,082,693
<strong>AFGHANISTAN & CENTRAL ASIAN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1096908](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096908)]<br>ESOL for Integration,Citizenship Classes,Drop in Clinic/Legal Advice,Supplementary School,Zanan Project: Women's Tea Corner,Mentoring/Volunteering,Prevent Counter-extremism Strategy, Business and Employment Advice,Cultural and Social Events,Advocacy and Conferences, | £963,281
<strong>OASIS CARDIFF</strong> [Charity number: [1131306](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131306)]<br>Oasis Cardiff is a centre for asylum seekers and refugees. It is run to give people a space to come and projects to help them begin integration and learn to live in Cardiff.  Projects include: One to one support, English classes, women's sewing, women's sessions, gardening, bike club, drama, job club, computer classes and cookery.  People are also sign posted to other activities in Cardiff. | £947,694


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SOMALI COMMUNITY & CULTURAL SCHOOL CONSISTING PARENTS' FORUM/LANGUAGES SCHOOL/SKILLS CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1131349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131349)]<br>Education & trainingTranslation and Interpretation serviceChild-Care TuitionStudy support and Youth ClubsCounsellingMentoring Esol and Somali languages and supporting Employment and Well-being  of the Community. | £19,954
<strong>NEW ADDINGTON SANGUM</strong> [Charity number: [1047173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1047173)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION BY ORGANISING TALKS,CULTURAL ACTIVITIES AND CLASSES,PARTICULARLY ENGLISH CLASSES.  TO PROVIDE AND ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR WOMEN FOR THEIR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE.  TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF WOMEN AND TO RELIEVE THE POVERTY AND SICKNESS OF WOMEN BY PROVIDING AN ADVOCACY AND ADVICE SERVICE. | 
<strong>All People Support Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [1193994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193994)]<br>Advice and Support in improving health and wellbeing. Activities include, Counselling sessions and keep fit activities.Provide educational support to disadvantage people. Activities include training, ESOL Classes, Employability support and supplementary education.Provide inclusive support to disabled and elderly people. Activities include luncheon club, Health awareness and advice & guidance. | 
<strong>ANGOLAN CIVIC COMMUNITIES ALLIANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1081831](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081831)]<br>The Angolan Civic Communities Alliance (ACCA) provides a range of services and community-led initiatives in health, life-long learning, volunteering, welfare rights and benefits, housing, health, education, access to employment, immigration, community integration, ESOL, language services, extra-curricular and after-school activities and elderly services to the wider Portuguese speaking community. | £2,918
<strong>INTERNATIONAL CENTRE FOR INTEGRATION AND COHESION</strong> [Charity number: [1126489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126489)]<br>CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES SUPPORTING IRAQI NEEDY FAMILIES AND ORPHANS.INTEGRITY IS A PROJECT THAT WORKS WITH DIASPORA COMMUNITIES TO AMPLIFY AND PROVIDE ROBUST RESEARCH TO PROMOTE INTEGRATION AND COHESION.DELIVERING TRAINING FOR ESOL AND IT FOR EMPLOYABILITY.PROJECT CULTURAL ACTIVITIES AND SOCIAL GATHERING. | £350,114
<strong>STEYNING UKRAINIAN REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [1199053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199053)]<br>A volunteer run Day Centre, helping Ukrainian Refugees in and around Steyning rebuild their shattered lives, teaching English, advising them & their Home Hosts, safely protecting their physical & mental health, making them job ready, facilitating integration into the community. Providing recreation, leisure facilities, vocational  training, advice, and bolstering their talents, gifts & skills. | 
<strong>Ballywalter Youth & Community Co-Operative</strong> [Charity number: [NI101447](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101447)]<br>We own and manage Ballywalter Village Hall which has a Main Hall (Sport/Activity), Education Room, Computer Suite/Drop In Room, 2 Offices for Mtgs and 2 Business Units. We run a Youth Club twice a week for young people age 5 – 18 years, 50 registered. In partnership with locally based Action Group we run a Seniors Group fortnightly, 50 registered and we plan and co-ordinate community festival s and events throughout the year eg 3 Day Christmas Festival involving the whole of the community including the migrant community and visitors from other villages. Through our partnership working we encourage co-operation between local community groups, voluntary and statutory organisation for example. From our premises beneficiaries have access to Art and Craft classes, IT classes, ESOL Classes for Ethnic Minorities, Dog Training Club, Historic Society, Zuma, Health Initiatives, Camera Club, Women’s Institute, Care Workers and Age No Barrier. To up-skill members of local groups we have for example, Peace and Reconciliation work has been undertaken to address flags, emblems and racism in the Ballywalter area and we have run Keeping Children Safe Training delivered through SEHSCT to people throughout the Ards Peninsula. We have 13 user groups on a regular basis and ad hoc providing activities and services to local community and beyond. 250 people on a weekly basis benefit from our facility and activities on offer. MARA Project (Maximising Access to benefits, grants and services to Rural Areas, have also used our premises to raise awareness of opportunities available to individuals living in Ballywalter and area. There is daily access to the general public to find out information on local services available or use IT/Photocopying equipment. This facility and our group enables beneficiaries to learn new skills and share their own knowledge and skills with each other as well as reducing their isolation. | £14,891
<strong>DADIHIYE SOMALI DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1041387](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041387)]<br>General and debt Advice and information for clients. Drop in Advice from Mondays - Fridays 10am to 4pm at 1 Thorpe Close, London W10 5XL. Also have other services like -Managing Your Money  programme, Women Group workshops, Enhance Education (ESOL combines with Sewing Class on Tuesdays, Volunteering programme to provide skills and experience for young and employed, Supplementary school on Fridays. | £110,397
<strong>CONSONANT LTD</strong> [Charity number: [291789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-291789)]<br>Legal advice provision, community education, empowerment, media and policy work, nursery, employment and training services, health promotion, volunteering, IT and ESOL classes | £1,180,854
<strong>Mountsandel Christian Fellowship</strong> [Charity number: [NI100058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100058)]<br>Each of the following activities is open to members of the public. Public Worship and instruction: Communion and all age Bible teaching take place each Sunday morning. This includes Bible teaching for adults, Sunday school and Bible class with crèche facilities provided. Six home groups meet on week nights in Coleraine and the surrounding area providing an informal space for Bible discussion, prayer and mutual support and friendship. Our parent and toddler group ‘Jolly Tots’ provides a safe place for babies and toddlers to play together, and serves as a gathering place for mums, dads, grandparents and other guardians. English Classes: provides an important free weekly resource to the local immigrant communities (especially Polish and Bulgarian). The Youth Club is a place where teenagers can meet in a safe and relaxed environment, and engage with a variety of creative activities, under the care of skilled and caring leaders. Drop-in: Provides an informal connection point for older teenagers to meet and chat. Art Club: this informal club meets twice each week and provides an opportunity for artists of all abilities (including beginners) to practice and learn together, under the supervision of an encouraging mentor. Sandelfest: This is a week-long summer community festival which provides a whole variety of free events for children, young people and adults. Mountsandel Christian Fellowship has developed a fruitful partnership with Oasis, a local charity, which provides a varied range of practical support for vulnerable people. | £131,005
