# Vocational training `ED306`

Vocational training is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Education](ED.md) categoryand the Training subcategory.

407 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.20% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((occupational|vocational)+ (skills?|training)+)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 104 | 0.14%
£10k - £100k | 121 | 0.18%
£100k - £250k | 45 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 21 | 0.21%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.25%
£1m - £10m | 40 | 0.46%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.19%
Total | 351 | 0.18%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 345 | 0.20%
oscr | 40 | 0.16%
ccni | 22 | 0.31%
Total | 407 | 0.20%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Quarriers</strong> [Charity number: [SC001960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001960)]<br>2.1 To promote the relief and advancement of life opportunities for those faced with and affected by disadvantage through disability, addiction, chronic and/or terminal illness, mental infirmity, financial hardship and/or poverty and homelessness through person centred care and support in such ways as the company shall from time to time think fit without regard to race, nationality, creed, age, gender, or sexual orientation and without geographical restriction and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):  (a) By establishing, maintaining and conducting residential care and other support services for the reception and care of persons who are suffering from any chronic and/or terminal illness or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons.  (b) Providing practical care and support of persons suffering from the effects of disability, chronic and/or terminal illness, poverty or suffering (such persons being hereinafter referred to as “the People We Support”) which care and support may include, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of counselling and emotional, therapeutic, financial, educational and domiciliary support, the provision of information, advice and training, the provision of nursing and medical services, the provision and facilitation of accommodation, the provision and facilitation of vocational training and employment services and/or other training to the People We Support.  (c) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research and evaluation into the care, welfare and support of the People We Support and the dissemination of knowledge.   Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £51,322,000
<strong>THE WILF WARD FAMILY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1140852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140852)]<br>The Trust delivers supported living, short breaks, residential care, direct payments support agencies and community domiciliary care services across Yorkshire for children, adults and older people. The Trust also provides vocational training and work placements through its cafe. The ethos of the organisation is to promote independence, choice and control for all people using its services. | £26,246,557
<strong>Vocational Training Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC049476](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049476)]<br>4 Objects The charity's objects ('Objects'), being for public benefit, are: (4.1) the advancement of education by:- (a) assessment of education and skills for accreditation. (b) setting standards of education and skills as an awarding and assessment organisation. (c) the promotion of skills and knowledge for vocational and technical employment. (d) advancing digital research and other educational techniques | £11,661,678
<strong>VOCATIONAL TRAINING CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [295192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295192)]<br>Vocational Training Charitable Trust, T/A VTCT Skills, is a market-leading specialist vocational and technical Awarding Organisation offering a comprehensive range of qualifications, assessments and services in 17 sectors, including Hairdressing, Beauty, Logistics and Early Years. Working closely with employers and training providers, our ranges are backed by industry and trusted around the world. | £11,661,678
<strong>KisharonLangdon</strong> [Charity number: [271519](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271519)]<br>The principal object of the charity is to provide excellence in education, vocational training, care and support for children and adults with learning disabilities, within a traditional Jewish environment.  The aim is to make provision for life so as to promote the potential of the individual using support and therapies in order that they live as independently as possible within the community. | £8,357,012
<strong>Action Mental Health</strong> [Charity number: [NI100753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100753)]<br>AMH supports people’s mental health and well-being through vocational training, employment guidance and personal development services. It has 12 service locations in Northern Ireland delivering projects based on the model of ‘recovery’ to over 3,000 adults annually, although delivery also increasingly takes place as ‘outreach’ in a variety of other locations across the region. The 5 Health and Social Care Trusts are also increasingly asking AMH to run similar recovery services for younger people (16-25). The Trusts in NI refer clients to AMH on the basis that the clients are suitable for recovery services leading to employment. The services provide tailored programmes of training for individuals to help them gain accredited qualifications and skills to ideally gain employment and/or lead more independent lives. Clients can attend services every day or on a sessional basis to suit their needs. AMH staff assist clients to write CVs and apply for jobs as well as getting them training placements with employers. Once clients have secured employment AMH staff are available for up to 6 months to help the individual retain the job; AMH staff also advise and guide employers in how to support clients. Following this path to employment individuals hopefully recover from their mental health issues. AMH delivers emotional resilience building programmes and reaches over 8,000 young people, their teachers and carers through these activities in NI and cross border; a similar programme is delivered to prisoners. The charity operates three Mens’ Sheds which assist with older men's emotional well being. AMH delivers a 'Protect Life' contract in NI which has a whole population approach to building emotional resilience in the Southern Health and Social Care Trust area. There are smaller ASD and Learning Disability projects designed to get people into employment. AMH also delivers DEL sponsored Government employment programmes to get people into work and keep them in work. | £7,085,984
<strong>YMCA DERBYSHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1049904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049904)]<br>YMCA Derbyshire is an organisation that aims to provide quality services for the benefit of homeless people & people at risk of social or educational exclusion. We provide supported accommodation, vocational training, information, advice & guidance & as a childcare provider offer out of school childcare provision,integrated playschemes for special educational needs and mainstream children. | £6,553,670
<strong>HOMEFIELD COLLEGE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1114995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1114995)]<br>Provision of residential and day education for young adults with autistic spectrum conditions, communication difficulties and learning disabilities and residential care and development for adults that are older (22+) with similar disabilities.  Developing vocational and occupational skills that are relevant to the individual. | £5,881,854
<strong>ST CATHERINE'S - SPEECH AND LANGUAGE</strong> [Charity number: [288148](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288148)]<br>St Catherine's is a national charity working with children and young people with severe, lifelong speech, language and communication disabilities. We provide a specialist school and sixth form centre, intensive speech, language and occupational therapy, excellent residential facilities, a comprehensive vocational training programme and outreach support to mainstream schools, parents and families. | £4,949,790
<strong>Haven Products Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC018094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018094)]<br>1.1	The Objects of the Charity are to provide or assist in Scotland, by whatever manner or means from time to time available, in the provision of the assessment, preventative or remedial action, vocational training, encouragement, education, development, employment, care, housing, facilities, equipment, and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities and other disadvantaged persons (which terms include without limitation persons mentally or physically handicapped, disabled, ill or suffering any disorder or disease) designed or adapted to meet their needs and to do all things as will improve the quality of life of such persons especially to enhance their social and economic independence, support the fundamental right of equal opportunity with specific actions and help prevent social exclusion.     | £4,688,683


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>DEREHAM AID CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1208177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208177)]<br>I. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE IN NORFOLK FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, (PARTICULARLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY ASYLUM SEEKERS AND REFUGEES) RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY. FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE “SOCIALLY EXCLUDED” MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PART OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF BEING A MEMBER OF A SOCIALLY AND / OR ECONOMICALLY DEPRIVED COMMUNITY BY;A. EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND IN VOCATIONAL SKILLS;B. SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND EVENTS INVOLVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY; C. PROVIDING GRANTS, ITEMS, AND SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS IN NEED AND / OR CHARITIES, OR OTHER ORGANISATIONS WORKING TO PREVENT OR RELIEVE POVERTY.II. THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY IN NORFOLK BY PROVIDING GRANTS, ITEMS, AND SERVICES TO INDIVIDUALS IN NEED AND / OR CHARITIES, OR OTHER ORGANISATIONS WORKING TO PREVENT OR RELIEVE POVERTY.III. THE RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE OF PEOPLE IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD WHO ARE THE VICTIMS OF WAR OR NATURAL DISASTER, TROUBLE OR CATASTROPHE THROUGH THE PROVISION OF GRANTS AND IN-KIND DONATIONS TO ORGANISATIONS PROVIDING AID IN COUNTRIES AFFECTED.  | 
<strong>Lurgan YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [NI100606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100606)]<br>1.Advancement of education - through its provision of programme based non formal education in areas such as youth work, community education, life-long learning, vocational training, the development of individual competences, skills understanding and capacities. 2.Advancement of health - through the use of health promotion and support for the mental well-being of young people. 3.The advancement of citizenship or community development - Lurgan YMCA encourages and supports volunteers in its programme areas, promoting the development of community groups by extending support, advice as well as allowing use of its premises. 4.Advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality or diversity - The YMCA provides programmes focussed on building ‘Good Relations’ within communities. It provides training for young people in community leadership, community relations, equality and also diversity. 5.Relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage - In partnership with other statutory or voluntary organisations, Lurgan YMCA provides direct services to young people and families through volunteer placements, specialist programmes, parental support including community engagement. | £249,956
<strong>SPRINGS OF LIFE AND HOPE</strong> [Charity number: [1127290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127290)]<br>We make grants to organisations working in Israel and the territories for the relief f financial hardship, providing accommodation and vocational training | £105,337
<strong>CARE FOR UGANDA</strong> [Charity number: [1099797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099797)]<br>Child sponsorship programme - 265 children.Working in partnerships with Local government and the Buganda kingdom.Offering Vocational skills to people in Bbowa who have no academic qualifications.Training Village Health Teams.Carrying out hernia operations.Livestock project.Three main areas of work are Bukasa, Bbowa and Banda | £59,179
<strong>KARMAND COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1060210](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060210)]<br>Advance education, opportunities for vocational training and facilities for recreational another leisure time occupationa in the interests of socail welfare and with the object of improving the conditions of life amoongst person who have need of such facilities and who are resident in Bradford | £1,652,644
<strong>Miraas Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052273)]<br>3 The organisation’s purposes are: (a) the prevention or relief of poverty- by providing monthly food packs containing essential items to individuals in need and/or charities, or other organisations working to prevent or relieve poverty. providing help in education with a major focus on relieving children put into labour to support families, along with vocational training to help set up cottage industries for women who are widowed, divorced, or having dependents with no bread winner (b) the saving of lives- by providing financial and administrative assistance to individuals in need of emergency and lifesaving procedures with a focus on maternity cases and those injured in accidents. (c) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage- by providing monthly food packages for individuals/families that are unable to provide for themselves due to ill-health and disability. For those with financial difficulty we will help with vocational training and help with employment opportunities to enable a fresh ‘start’. | 
<strong>ACTIVE IN DEVELOPMENT AID (ADA)</strong> [Charity number: [1155709](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155709)]<br> TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT IN THE HORN OF AFRICA REGION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC BY:(A) THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE IN SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES ; (B) THE PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABLE MEANS OF ACHIEVING ECONOMIC GROWTH AND REGENERATION.TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN SUBJECTS RELATING TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROTECTION, ENHANCEMENT AND REHABILITATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND TO PROMOTE STUDY AND RESEARCH IN SUCH SUBJECTS PROVIDED THAT THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH STUDY ARE DISSEMINATED TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MEANS “DEVELOPMENT WHICH MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE PRESENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR OWN NEEDS.”•THE RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE OF PEOPLE IN ANY PART OF THE HORN OF AFRICA REGIONS WHO ARE THE VICTIMS OF WAR OR NATURAL DISASTER, TROUBLE, OR CATASTROPHE IN PARTICULAR BY THE SUPPLY OF SHELTER, FOOD AND MEDICAL AID TO SUCH PERSONS. •THE PROMOTION OF SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT AMONG PEOPLE WHO ARE REFUGEES AND ASYLUM SEEKERS, IN PARTICULAR FROM EAST AFRICA, WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED ON THE GROUNDS OF THEIR SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC POSITION, BY PROVIDING IN PARTICULARLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING:1. EDUCATION AND TRAINING, INCLUDING VOCATIONAL SKILLS AND REQUIRED SKILLS TO FIND EMPLOYMENT;2. SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES AND EVENTS INVOLVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY.3. INTERPRETING/TRANSLATING/ADVOCACY/ HEALTH/HOUSING ADVICE AND EDUCATION. | 
<strong>N.F.F.O TRAINING TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1080995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080995)]<br>The Trust was set up to promote and provide vocational training and to advance the education of the public in all matters related to the Fishing Industry. | £2,573
<strong>WORLD VILLAGES FOR CHILDREN</strong> [Charity number: [1058973](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058973)]<br>To relieve poverty suffered by children thoughout the world by providing them with food, clothing, shelter and education, including vocational training, so that they can break free from a life of poverty and despair. Educate the public concerning children and adults living in poverty and promote the advancement of religion in the charitable works undertaken. | £2,365,435
<strong>GLOBAL ACTION NEPAL</strong> [Charity number: [1090773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090773)]<br>GAN is social organization which has been working exclusively in Nepal for two decades to help develop the education system and implement social change. We work to enhance the rising generation's life chances in Nepal by widening its access to and participation in empowering, community sustaining, gender equalising basic education and vocational skills development. | £48,404
