# Environment `EN`

Environment is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Environment](EN.md) category.

3,656 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.80% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,179 | 1.59%
£10k - £100k | 995 | 1.45%
£100k - £250k | 341 | 1.62%
£250k - £500k | 218 | 2.16%
£500k - £1m | 172 | 2.72%
£1m - £10m | 272 | 3.16%
Over £10m | 55 | 2.64%
Total | 3,232 | 1.69%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,559 | 1.50%
oscr | 1,010 | 4.08%
ccni | 87 | 1.21%
Total | 3,656 | 1.80%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £270,419,000
<strong>QUADRATURE CLIMATE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1187301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187301)]<br>QCF is an independent foundation focused on the urgent challenge of climate change, funding innovative, science-led solutions that reduce carbon emissions, remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and help the world's most vulnerable people respond to the impacts of climate change, all in pursuit of a climate-resilient future. | £269,860,805
<strong>CANAL & RIVER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146792)]<br>Canal & River Trust is the charitable operator and guardian of 2,000 miles of historic waterways across England and Wales. In addition to caring for the waterways so that they are available for the public to enjoy, the Trust maintains the nations' third largest collection of listed heritage structures, as well as museums, archives, and hundreds of important wildlife sites. | £225,100,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £169,877,000
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS</strong> [Charity number: [207076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207076)]<br>To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit by conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend,protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.To raise public understanding and awareness,and to provide information on,such matters.To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment | £164,702,000
<strong>Sustrans</strong> [Charity number: [SC039263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039263)]<br>To promote and encourage both in the UK and overseas for the public benefit the development in the community of and the provision of safe routes, paths and facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy transport and to undertake and carry on projects and activities of a charitable nature which will assist in promoting healthy recreation, the protection of the environment and the conservation of energy resources. | £146,405,000
<strong>AKO FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1151815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151815)]<br>The Foundation's main activity is to make grants to UK charities and for charitable purposes elsewhere in the world.  The priority areas for its grants are initiatives and projects which improve education, promote the arts and combat the climate emergency. The Foundation does not seek applications for grants and will not make grants in response to unsolicited applications received. | £117,443,000
<strong>WWF - UK</strong> [Charity number: [1081247](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081247)]<br>WWF-UK's mission is to prevent and reverse the degradation of the planet's natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature by conserving the world's biological diversity, ensuring that the use of renewable natural resources is sustainable and reducing pollution and wasteful consumption. | £94,036,000
<strong>WWF-UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039593)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are 3.1 the promotion of conservation of the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources and ecological processes, to include without limitation, fauna and flora, water, soils and other natural resources. and 3.2 the promotion of education in nature conservation, the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. and 3.3 the promotion and support of scientific and educational studies, research and projects and publication of scientific and educational works. | £94,036,000
<strong>THE WOODLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294344)]<br>Our Objects are to conserve restore & re-establish trees & in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife & thereby to secure & enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment.Our vision is a UK rich in native woods & trees for people & wildlife. Life's better with trees strengthening the role of  woods & trees in our landscapes & rekindling our love of them. | £82,496,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>RIVERSIDE CHURCH (SOUTHWELL)</strong> [Charity number: [1207679](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207679)]<br>3.1. THE PURPOSES OF THE CHURCH ARE: 3.1.1. THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BASIS OF FAITH, PRIMARILY, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, WITHIN SOUTHWELL AND THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBOURHOOD; AND 3.1.2. SUCH OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSES AS SHALL, IN THE OPINION OF THE CHARITY TRUSTEES, PUT INTO PRACTICE THE CHRISTIAN FAITH IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE BASIS OF FAITH, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO: THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF NEED, HARDSHIP AND SICKNESS; THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION; AND THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NEED OF SUCH FACILITIES BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCES WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE; PROVIDED THAT THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUCH PURPOSES MUST BE UNDERTAKEN IN A MANNER THAT IS CONSISTENT WITH THE BIBLICAL BELIEFS AND ETHICAL STATEMENTS AS MAY BE ADOPTED AND AMENDED BY THE CHURCH FROM TIME TO TIME. | 
<strong>WILD CLAPHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1205292](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205292)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION, PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY IN AND AROUND CLAPHAM COMMON | 
<strong>PLANET PURBECK</strong> [Charity number: [1208249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208249)]<br>1. TO PROMOTE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC BY:(A) THE PRESERVATION, CONSERVATION AND THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE PRUDENT USE OF RESOURCES;(B) THE PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABLE MEANS OF ACHIEVING ECONOMIC GROWTH AND REGENERATION.2. TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT (BY PROMOTING BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY)3. TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN SUBJECTS RELATING TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROTECTION, ENHANCEMENT AND REHABILITATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND TO PROMOTE STUDY AND RESEARCH IN SUCH SUBJECTS PROVIDED THAT THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH STUDY ARE DISSEMINATED TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE.SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MEANS 'DEVELOPMENT WHICH MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE PRESENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR OWN NEEDS'. | 
<strong>SUSTAINABLE HAYFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [1198273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198273)]<br>Sustainable Hayfield works with individuals & community organisations to promote sustainability in the parish of Hayfield. We have 5 working groups - energy, transport, food, waste (3Rs), and biodiversity. These groups run projects locally. We produce a quarterly newsletter for our 200 supporters and organise an annual Apple Day. We engage with local councils and our MP on environmental matters, | £4,914
<strong>The Guild Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052146](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052146)]<br>4. The organisation's purposes are:  4.1. We aim to advance the education of our community in Dumfries and the wider region, in the fields of arts, creative industry, food and nutrition. We will achieve this by providing a wide range of learning opportunities which will improve employability and confidence through the development of skills. providing pathways to qualifications. and by offering access to training, volunteering and employment activities.  4.2. We aim to advance the health and wellbeing of our local population through the provision of opportunities which will increase their self-confidence, make them feel less isolated, learn skills which are calming and help form friendship groups.  All of this in turn will improve mental wellbeing. We will do this by running a wide variety of workshops for both adults and young people.  These will focus on increasing creative skills in art, sewing, knitting, cooking and other craft activities such as pottery, jewellery making, floristry. We will also run social events such as book clubs, local interest speakers, art, craft and cooking demonstrations, art exhibitions, market festivals.  Attendees will find companionship, may develop a new hobby and generally feel connected to a community, interest or event.   4.3. We will advance environmental protection or improvement by the promotion of environmental sustainability, through repair, reuse, reclamation, recycling and use of surplus and leftover materials to minimise waste. We will achieve this by through Reuse, Recycle and Upcycle hands on workshops, demonstrations and talks from experts on how to live more sustainably.  Sewing, repairing and craft classes to make or repurpose clothing to minimise waste.  Regular, small appliance and furniture repair clinics. We will also run 'zero waste'  cooking classes/demonstration to increase knowledge of minimal waste, using up leftover ingredients or using less expensive/less popular food to reduce food waste  4.4. We will advance citizenship and community development by providing, and promoting the participation in, community-led activities in Dumfries and the wider region. We will achieve this through partnership and 3 community engagement, and the development of a creative space which works with the community to encourage participation and civic pride.    - We will advance arts and culture through the provision of creative opportunities and the promotion of the arts in our community in Dumfries and the wider region. We will achieve this through a range of activities such as equipment hire for example sewing machines, printing equipment, reduced cost space in our retail space and markets for start up businesses, business Workshops to support fledgling creative businesses and free exhibitions and events to showcase local talent and allow the general public to enjoy art and creativity and be inspired   4.5. We will provide recreational facilities through the development of flexible spaces which offers a comprehensive programme of activities which meets the diverse needs of all members of our community. We will achieve this by working with partners to ensure our spaces are accessible and encourage engagement and participation from vulnerable or marginalised groups.   | 
<strong>ENGAGE FURNITURE STORE</strong> [Charity number: [1191991](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191991)]<br>1)  The prevention or relief of poverty for the public benefit amongst people in the county of Somerset, in particular by providing furniture and other household equipment at affordable prices.  2)  To protect and safeguard the environment for the public benefit through the promotion of the re-use of household items thereby preventing and minimising waste disposal. | £172,224
<strong>LEIGH ON SEA LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1209507](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209507)]<br>SUCH PURPOSES AS ARE EXCLUSIVELY CHARITABLE IN ENGLAND AND WALES, INCLUDING IN PARTICULAR:THE ADVANCEMENT OF CITIZENSHIP BY;PROMOTING THE PRINCIPLES OF GOOD CITIZENSHIP;ENCOURAGING MEMBERS TO TAKE AN ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE CIVIC, CULTURAL, SOCIAL AND MORAL WELFARE OF THE COMMUNITY;PROVIDING A FORUM FOR THE OPEN DISCUSSION OF ALL MATTERS OF PUBLIC INTEREST; PROVIDED THAT PARTISAN POLITICS AND SECTARIAN RELIGION SHALL NOT BE DEBATED BY MEMBERS;ENCOURAGING SERVICE-MINDED PEOPLE TO SERVE THEIR COMMUNITY WITHOUT PERSONAL REWARD AND ENCOURAGING THE PROMOTION OF HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS IN COMMERCE, INDUSTRY, PROFESSIONS, PUBLIC WORKS AND PRIVATE ENDEAVOURS;SUPPORTING YOUTH TO DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;PROMOTING THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY ASSOCIATING WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION TO IMPROVE THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF PEOPLE IN LOCAL, NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITIES;PROMOTING VOLUNTEERING;THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED IN PARTICULAR BY PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID AND DISASTER RELIEF;THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH OR THE SAVING OF LIVES BY PREVENTING AVOIDABLE BLINDNESS, ASSISTING DISABLED PEOPLE TO LEAD INDEPENDENT LIVES OR HELPING TO PREVENT OR MANAGE HEALTH ISSUES;PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND/ORPROMOTING COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION IN HEALTHY RECREATION. | 
<strong>THE WONKY GARDEN</strong> [Charity number: [1204849](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204849)]<br>The charity is based in Halton, Widnes.  It operates a nature based service in c3/4 an acre of much-loved community green space, focusing on enhancing the natural environment, wildlife  and biodiversity using sustainable methods.  It delivers nature based therapy, food education, development of life skills through horitculture/DIY activities and gifts 20% of its produce, plants and flowers. | £37,758
<strong>LOW CARBON BUSINESS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1191253](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191253)]<br>A Foundation Charity that donates money to UK Registered Charities to help increase biodiversity improve the environment and reduce atmospheric CO2 through tree planting and restoring natural habitats | 
<strong>THE HAYWARD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1195356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195356)]<br>To take care of meadow and any other natural area donated to the Trust in perpetuity for the local community. To preserve and care for the natural environment and  encourage biodiversity. To allow public access to the community to enjoy these areas. | £100
