# Recycling `EN103`

Recycling is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Environment](EN.md) category.

424 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.21% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(re-?cycl(e|ing)|re-use)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 105 | 0.14%
£10k - £100k | 129 | 0.19%
£100k - £250k | 59 | 0.28%
£250k - £500k | 40 | 0.40%
£500k - £1m | 32 | 0.51%
£1m - £10m | 19 | 0.22%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 386 | 0.20%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 281 | 0.16%
oscr | 122 | 0.49%
ccni | 21 | 0.29%
Total | 424 | 0.21%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £42,880,025
<strong>FURNITURE RESOURCE CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [700731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700731)]<br>1) To relieve need, hardship or distress by the provision of furniture and other household accessories to low income families.2) To advance any charitable purpose for the benefit of the public and in particular the provision of training for excluded groups to further their chances of obtaining full time employment and the provision of recycling services which directly benefit the environment | £19,085,949
<strong>TEXTILE REUSE AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [297489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-297489)]<br>TRAID is an environmental and poverty relief charity. TRAID reduces landfill through; the provision of textile recycling facilities, its charity shops and upcycled clothing. Funds raised go to environmental and textile related international development projects and TRAID's education programmes developed to gain greater recycling participation and empathy with the issues surrounding global poverty. | £9,075,370
<strong>THE BENJAMIN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1124936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124936)]<br>Our aim is to provide high quality services and opportunities that significantly improve the lives of vulnerable children and young people. We provide advice, support, counselling, information, supported accommodation, positive activities, parenting support, out of school and youth projects and re-use schemes. | £7,970,788
<strong>Possil Community Business Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC011480](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011480)]<br>Subject to the said over-riding qualifications the objects for which the company is established are: 1. The relief of poverty by the alleviation of unemployment principally for the poor residents of Greater Possil without distinction as to race, age or sex, or political, religious or other opinions. 2. To provide and assist in the provision of training opportunities for the said residents with a view to teaching particular skills which will assist such people in finding work. 3. To carry on business in manufacturing, construction, recycling and service industries with a view to furthering the objects above mentioned. 4. To purchase, take on lease or in exchange, hire or otherwise acquire, any property, heritable or movable, real or personal, which may be deemed necessary or convenient for any of the purposes of the company. 5. To draw, make, accept and endorse promissory notes, bills of exchange and other negotiable instruments. | £5,137,782
<strong>The Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining</strong> [Charity number: [SC050586](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050586)]<br>The objects of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as “the objects”) shall be to advance and develop all aspects of science, engineering and technology as applied to the discovery, exploration, development, characterisation, exploitation, processing, application and re-cycling of materials, minerals and fuels, to further and co-ordinate education, training and practice in these disciplines and to facilitate the acquisition, preservation and dissemination of knowledge pertaining to these disciplines, provided that in pursuing these objects, in so far as they may be similar to those of existing organisations, the Institute shall use its best endeavours to co-operate with them and to ensure that its activities are complimentary to those of such organisations.  | £4,818,000
<strong>KRIZEVAC PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1115608](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115608)]<br>Financing the establishment of a cross and stations on mountains The building of churches, community buildings & schools in the proximity of each mountain  The establishment of small businesses for the benefit of local communities in the areas around each mountain Promotion of any movement to alleviate endemic povertyPromotion of re-use, re-cycling and up-cycling of waste materials. | £4,665,299
<strong>ST RICHARD OF CHICHESTER CHRISTIAN CARE ASSOCIATION LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1000830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000830)]<br>The charity operating as Stonepillow is principally engaged in the relief of homelessness and social exclusion. Services include hostels, day centres, a furniture recycling social enterprise project, supported accommodation and a recovery project for those dependent on drugs, alcohol and suffer from mental health. | £4,316,778
<strong>ALL ABOARD SHOPS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1125462](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125462)]<br>The Charity operates retail shops selling donated goods. The profits from these operations are donated to a number of UK charities to promote the ideals of recycling and working for a cleaner and healthier enviroment. | £3,475,796
<strong>Four Square (Scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC017242](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017242)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is established are:- 8.1 the prevention and/or relief of poverty by promoting and/or delivery of services, alone or in conjunction with others, that provide support and advice to people who are homeless or in other ways disadvantaged and vulnerable. 8.2 the advancement of health by the promotion and/or delivery of services, alone or in conjunction with others, that encourage and emphasise healthy lifestyle matters to people who are homeless or in other ways disadvantaged and vulnerable. 8.3 the advancement of community development by the promotion and/or delivery, alone or in conjunction with others, of learning and employability opportunities enabling people who are homeless or in other ways disadvantaged and vulnerable to be socially included and economically contribute to civic life. 8.4 the advancement of education in the community by promoting and/or delivery of services, alone or in conjunction with others, that assist people who are homeless or in other ways disadvantaged and vulnerable with literacy, numeracy, life skills, work skills and social activities. 8.5 the advancement of environmental protection and/or improvement by the promotion and/or delivery of services, alone or in conjunction with others, that reuse and/or recycle items from the waste stream. 8.6 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, financial hardship or other disadvantage by promoting and/or delivery of services, alone or in conjunction with others, that provide support, advice, practical assistance and opportunity to improve their circumstances. 8.7 the promotion of equality and diversity by encouraging participation and integration into a range of inclusive and accessible programmes which strive to bring together a cross section of the community. and 8.8 such other charitable object as is charitable, not falling under the preceding sub-clauses and that may reasonably be regarded as similar to any of the precedin | £3,287,870


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COLLECTIONS FOR AFRICA</strong> [Charity number: [1175630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175630)]<br>We recycle waste clothing to fund the building of schools in Africa. | 
<strong>SOUTHERN AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY SUPPORT AGENCY (SA-DC-SA)</strong> [Charity number: [1139450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139450)]<br>ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR EDUCATION TO THE DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN ESPECIALLY IN ARTS AND SPORTSPROVIDING GOODS/SERVICES, ADVICE AND ASSISTANCE TO REFUGEES & ASYLUM SEEKERSASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF EQUIPMENT, FACILITIES & SERVICES AND TRANSLATING MEDICAL ADVICE BOOKSPROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT BY RECLAMATION OF USED COMPUTERS, MOBILE PHONES, PLASTIC GOODS & RECYCLING | 
<strong>We Care. Third World Charity</strong> [Charity number: [NI102895](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102895)]<br>"We Care" have a thrift shop at 45 Springfield Road. Here we sell good quality second-hand clothing, small items of furniture, bric-a-brac etc. Any articles not sold are sent for re-cycling - there is nothing wasted. The Thrift Shop is an important source of income while giving a service back to the community who have supported us for over thirty years. We make application to the P.S.N.I. each year for permits to collect in towns all over Northern Ireland. Returns have to be made for every collection. Other fundraising events consist of Church Door Collections, Coffee mornings, sponsorships etc. We have our Charity boxes placed in different outlets in and around Belfast. We also rely greatly on voluntary donations. We host a Golf tournament every year at Fortwilliam Golf Club | £24,780
<strong>Fyne Futures</strong> [Charity number: [SC036392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036392)]<br>To preserve, restore and improve the environment in and around the area of Argyll and Bute through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry pit works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use of those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use.  To protect the natural environment from further damage by discouraging the unnecessary depletion of natural resources through waste management, recycling and otherwise and promoting education in the fields of waste management and/or recycling and, in particular, collating information and carrying out research in those fields and disseminating such information and the results of such research, all with a view to encouraging the use of more sustainable waste management practices.  To promote training and education, particularly in such skills as may assist the participants in obtaining paid employment.  To relieve unemployment in such ways as may as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment.  To relieve ill health and promote good health, particularly among residents of the Operating Area.  To provide within the Operating Area facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation available to the public at large with a view to improving their conditions of life.  To promote for the public benefit the preservation  (whether wholly or in part) of buildings and other structures of historic and/or architectural significance located within the Operating Area.  To promote, operate and/or support other charitable projects and initiatives for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area | £692,474
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF WOOLMER GREEN SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [284100](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284100)]<br>School summer & Xmas Fete - quiz  nights  barn dance Craft Morning Cake sales Disco Textile recycling Camping nights | £11,490
<strong>FURNITURE RESOURCE CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [700731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700731)]<br>1) To relieve need, hardship or distress by the provision of furniture and other household accessories to low income families.2) To advance any charitable purpose for the benefit of the public and in particular the provision of training for excluded groups to further their chances of obtaining full time employment and the provision of recycling services which directly benefit the environment | £19,085,949
<strong>Love Learning Scotland SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC045441](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045441)]<br>4. The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are:  4.1 the advancement of education through the provision of:  4.1.1 personal life coaching, tailored training, practical advice, support and nurturing in order to develop skills, knowledge, creativity, confidence and experience, providing pathways to further education and employment and the attainment of recognised qualifications.  4.1.2 providing opportunities for achievement and personal development on environmental sites such as horticulture, agriculture, conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment, the reduction, re-use and recycling of resources, the use of renewable resources, respect for the environment, sustainable development, animal welfare, community cohesion, citizenship, life skills, the promotion of equality.  4.2 the relief of need in disadvantaged communities through the provision of personal life coaching, tailored training, practical advice, support and nurturing talent in order to develop skills, knowledge, creativity, confidence and experience.  4.3 the prevention or relief of poverty through the provision of skills and advancing the employability prospects as well as by providing emergency supplies to individuals in need and/or charities, or other organisations working to prevent or relieve poverty.  4.4 to safeguard, protect and preserve the good health, both mental and physical, of any person who has difficulty with life management or personal development through the provision of life coaching and mentoring.  4.5 Promoting the development of the community and providing facilities for recreation and leisure, with the object of improving the quality of life of those who participate.  4.6 Providing relief by way of therapeutic and recreational activities and facilities to persons who have need of such facilities.  | £472,083
<strong>Dailly Community Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC052137](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052137)]<br>The Organisation has been formed to benefit the community of Dailly & the geographical area covered by the Dailly Community Council boundary map (See addendum A. plan showing boundaries of Dailly Community Council) (the ?Community?), with the following purposes (the ?Purposes?):  4.1 To relieve the poverty and needs of the disadvantaged people in the Dailly Community Council Area. 4.2 The advancement of community development, including the advancement of rural regeneration. 4.3 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture and science  and community arts projects, including youth arts. 4.4 The advancement of public participation in sport, by maintaining and developing local sports facilities and by developing any other such sites that may in the future become available to the community for the purpose of sporting activities. 4.5 The provision & organisation of recreational and social activities by supporting a wide range of activities for the broader community, who suffer from a lack of opportunity to engage in recreational & social activities due to the isolated area in which they live. 4.6 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement, by supporting community initiatives which promote energy conservation and the introduction of renewable energy projects which reduce carbon emissions and create sustainable energy sources in the Dailly Community Council area, and by supporting and developing recycling initiatives. To promote environmental conservation & support the Galloway & South Ayrshire Biosphere. | £65,191
<strong>CAMBRIDGE RE-USE</strong> [Charity number: [1139265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139265)]<br>Helping people on low income or benefits to buy household goods at affordable prices.Collecting unwanted furniture and other household goods that would otherwise be consigned to landfill.Offering meaningful volunteering opportunities to people who are socially or economically excluded. | £197,555
<strong>SHARE AND REPAIR</strong> [Charity number: [1189015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189015)]<br>Operates numerous Repair Cafes across Bath & NE SomersetRuns a 'Library of Things' (lesser used household items) to share resourcesHolds 'HOW TO workshops to allow people to maintain and repair morePromotes and encourages repair, reuse and recycle towards a circular economy | £72,865
