# Wildlife `EN104`

Wildlife is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Environment](EN.md) category.

1,359 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.67% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(wild-?life|fauna|flora|habitat)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 542 | 0.76%
£10k - £100k | 360 | 0.51%
£100k - £250k | 109 | 0.49%
£250k - £500k | 67 | 0.61%
£500k - £1m | 53 | 0.76%
£1m - £10m | 117 | 1.27%
Over £10m | 29 | 1.29%
Total | 1,277 | 0.66%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,023 | 0.60%
oscr | 308 | 1.23%
ccni | 28 | 0.40%
Total | 1,359 | 0.67%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CANAL & RIVER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146792)]<br>Canal & River Trust is the charitable operator and guardian of 2,000 miles of historic waterways across England and Wales. In addition to caring for the waterways so that they are available for the public to enjoy, the Trust maintains the nations' third largest collection of listed heritage structures, as well as museums, archives, and hundreds of important wildlife sites. | £232,600,000
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS</strong> [Charity number: [207076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207076)]<br>To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit by conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend,protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.To raise public understanding and awareness,and to provide information on,such matters.To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment | £194,964,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £194,964,000
<strong>Historic Environment Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC045925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045925)]<br>(1) Historic Environment Scotland has the general function of investigating, caring for and promoting Scotland?s historic environment. (2) In exercising its general function, Historic Environment Scotland has the following particular functions? (a) identifying and recording the historic environment, (b) understanding and interpreting the historic environment, (c) learning about, and educating others about, the historic environment, (d) protecting and managing the historic environment, (e) conserving and enhancing the historic environment. (3) Historic Environment Scotland also has the function of managing its collections as a national resource for reference, study and research. (4) In exercising that function, Historic Environment Scotland has the following particular functions? (a) preserving, conserving and developing its collections, (b) making the collections accessible to the public and to persons wishing to carry out study and research, (c) exhibiting and interpreting objects in the collections.  | £144,621,000
<strong>THE WOODLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294344)]<br>Our Objects are to conserve restore & re-establish trees & in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife & thereby to secure & enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment.Our vision is a UK rich in native woods & trees for people & wildlife. Life's better with trees strengthening the role of  woods & trees in our landscapes & rekindling our love of them. | £89,379,000
<strong>WWF-UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039593)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are 3.1 the promotion of conservation of the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources and ecological processes, to include without limitation, fauna and flora, water, soils and other natural resources. and 3.2 the promotion of education in nature conservation, the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. and 3.3 the promotion and support of scientific and educational studies, research and projects and publication of scientific and educational works. | £89,335,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £84,723,000
<strong>The Woodland Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038885)]<br>The objects of the Trust (the 'Objects') are to conserve restore and re-establish trees and in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife and thereby to secure and enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment | £84,205,000
<strong>THE NORTH OF ENGLAND ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [306077](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306077)]<br>To develop a substantial, expanding role in the conservation of global biodiversity and habitat enrichments and to support this through sustainable commercial activities, including managing Chester Zoo as a world class visitor attraction.Further details can be obtained via our Annual Report for 2021. | £63,134,000
<strong>WILDFOWL AND WETLANDS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1030884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1030884)]<br>WWT works to save wetlands for wildlife and for people by inspiring people to connect with and value wetlands and their wildlife, by demonstrating and promoting the importance and benefits of wetlands, by countering threats to wetlands and their wildlife, by creating and restoring wetlands and protecting key wetland sites and by savings threatened wetlands species. | £46,756,455


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE WILDLIFE AID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1138944](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138944)]<br>The rescue, care and rehabilitation of wild creatures of all kinds. The promotion for the benefit of the public of the conservation, protection and improvement of the natural environment. The promotion of humane behaviour towards animals. | £1,961,814
<strong>Inverawe Community Woodland</strong> [Charity number: [SC049985](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049985)]<br>The Organisation has been formed to benefit all of the residents of the communities of the well-known and established catchment known as the Taynuilt Community Council area.  This relatively large area has a perimeter of over 50 miles.  It, naturally, includes the much smaller and spread out community area of Inverawe, which is located on the North side of the River Awe towards it lower reaches, and also includes the less spread out village communities of Taynuilt and Fearnoch to the West and the settlement of Bridge of Awe to the South East in NW Argyll (Inverawe itself being accessed via a single carriage way unclassified road off the A85 trunk road at Bridge of Awe). The Organisation?s intent is that its purposes will benefit all of the areas communities and residents with a shared interest in terms of clauses 4.1 to 4.3 below (the Community), with the following purposes (the Purposes): 4.1To provide continuing access to the land (?The Subjects?) being purchased from Forestry and Land Scotland for purposes of the recreational enjoyment of members of the Inverawe community, the wider local communities and members of the public at large with the object of maintaining the conditions of life of the Community. 4.2 To maintain and protect, including preservation, sustainable use of resources and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance & provision of environmental amenities for the Community and the maintenance of the undisturbed state of any/all historically, architecturally or archeologically significant aspects of The Subjects that are of importance to the Community. 4.3 To maintain the habitat and the free movement of the very many varieties of wild fauna to and from, The Subjects in accordance with arrangements as currently exist.  | £1,240
<strong>Cromarty Arts Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC003018](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003018)]<br>to promote for the benefit of the nation the restoration, conversion, maintenance and permanent preservation of buildings of beauty or historical or architectural importance and their environs especially within the said Parish and former Burgh of Cromarty  to advance the education of the public generally and especially in the subjects of art and design and to promote the maintenance, improvement and development of artistic taste and the knowledge, understanding and appreciation of the arts among them (and especially among such of them as live within the said Parish and former Burgh) and including the establishment and running of an Arts/Design Centre  to promote for the benefit of the nation the conservation  of natural features, the landscape, ecology and character of the area.  to stimulate public interest in and care forthe history, character, beauty and wildlife of the area | £206,978
<strong>The Vincent Wildlife Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043066](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043066)]<br>The objects of the Charity are to promote mammal research and conservation in Europe, in particular, but not exclusively by means of the creation of nature reserves for mammals as the Trustees in their absolute discretion shall decide | £929,344
<strong>Uyeasound Waterfront Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC032404](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032404)]<br>(i) To advance the education of the public in the natural and built environment and the local history and heritage of South Unst and environs.  (ii) To provide walks, pathways and other amenities for the public benefit.  (iii) To advance the education of the public in horticulture by the provision of a garden.  (iv) To maintain, preserve, protect and enhance the natural environment, flora and fauna. and  (v) For such other charitable purposes as are for the benefit of the community of Uyeasound. | £2,460
<strong>RSPCA Brighton & The Heart of Sussex</strong> [Charity number: [206630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206630)]<br>The charity is responsible for the RSPCA Brighton Animal Shelter, which provides care, veterinary treatment and rehoming for unwanted domestic animals, including reptiles.  The Shelter has a first aid and holding unit for injured wildlife.  Over 3000 animals are cared for at the Shelter each year.  The charity provides subsidised neutering for cats, dogs and rabbits, for people on low incomes. | £1,671,041
<strong>HELPING RHINOS</strong> [Charity number: [1175762](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175762)]<br>We work with expert conservationists to create and expand Rhino Strongholds; ecosystems where sustainable populations of rhino and other critically endangered wildlife can thrive. By protecting the rhino and conserving their natural habitat we are securing rich biodiverse environments for the long-term and helping local communities to benefit and prosper from their natural heritage | £358,525
<strong>Orkney Marine Mammal Research Initiative</strong> [Charity number: [SC050461](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050461)]<br>The advancement of science through the research and monitoring of the distribution, abundance and habitat use of marine mammals and factors affecting their conservation, especially in Orkney. 4.2 The promotion of heritage, arts and culture, through the themes of marine mammals, the marine environment and conservation. 4.3 The advancement of environmental protections and improvements for marine mammals and the marine environment, especially in Orkney, and the promotion of conservation to the public. 4.4 The advancement of marine mammal welfare through research and education. 4.5 The advancement of education and research relating to marine mammals and the marine environment, including citizen science programmes, community engagement, school outreach programs and volunteering opportunities within Orkney. 4.6 Any other purpose that may be reasonably regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £1,545
<strong>The Tweed Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC011055](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011055)]<br>(A) To advance for public benefit environmental protection and improvement by conserving and enhancing all species of freshwater fish and their environments primarily but not limited to the inland and coastal waters of the Tweed District, as defined in The Scotland Act 1998 (River Tweed) Order 2006 or any enactment amending or replacing the same. (B) To advance the education of the public and any association, company, local authority, administrative or governmental agency or public body or representative body in: - (1) The understanding of aquatic ecosystems, including their fauna, flora and economic or social activity, and river catchment management. (2) The need for, and benefits of, protection, conservation, rehabilitation and improvement of aquatic environments. (C) To advance the development of such other Charitable Purposes which relate primarily to, but are not limited to, the use, conservation and management of fish and fishery resources, water, water quality, environmental conservation, education and participation in sporting or recreational activities in connection with those resources. | £392,713
<strong>WILD COLERNE</strong> [Charity number: [1197970](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197970)]<br>1. Enhancing habitats for native wildlife, including its flora, fauna and other taxa;2. Providing information to raise public awareness;3. Promoting actions to mitigate biodiversity loss and the impact of climate change on the natural environment;4. Facilitating community support for biodiversity protection by promoting nature themed activities. | £343
