# Conservation and sustainability `EN102`

Conservation and sustainability is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Environment](EN.md) category.

2,102 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.04% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(natural environments?|environment(al)? sustainability|(environmental|nature) conservation|(conservation|protection) of (nature|the environment)|poaching|wild-?life habitat|water ?courses?|natural environment|riverside|wetlands?|pollution|biodiversity|eco-?system|rivers trust|beekeeping|land management)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 642 | 0.87%
£10k - £100k | 549 | 0.80%
£100k - £250k | 198 | 0.94%
£250k - £500k | 120 | 1.19%
£500k - £1m | 92 | 1.45%
£1m - £10m | 146 | 1.70%
Over £10m | 37 | 1.78%
Total | 1,784 | 0.93%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,374 | 0.80%
oscr | 683 | 2.76%
ccni | 45 | 0.63%
Total | 2,102 | 1.04%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £270,419,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £169,877,000
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS</strong> [Charity number: [207076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207076)]<br>To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit by conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend,protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.To raise public understanding and awareness,and to provide information on,such matters.To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment | £164,702,000
<strong>Sustrans</strong> [Charity number: [SC039263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039263)]<br>To promote and encourage both in the UK and overseas for the public benefit the development in the community of and the provision of safe routes, paths and facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy transport and to undertake and carry on projects and activities of a charitable nature which will assist in promoting healthy recreation, the protection of the environment and the conservation of energy resources. | £146,405,000
<strong>WWF - UK</strong> [Charity number: [1081247](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081247)]<br>WWF-UK's mission is to prevent and reverse the degradation of the planet's natural environment and to build a future in which humans live in harmony with nature by conserving the world's biological diversity, ensuring that the use of renewable natural resources is sustainable and reducing pollution and wasteful consumption. | £94,036,000
<strong>WWF-UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039593)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are 3.1 the promotion of conservation of the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources and ecological processes, to include without limitation, fauna and flora, water, soils and other natural resources. and 3.2 the promotion of education in nature conservation, the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. and 3.3 the promotion and support of scientific and educational studies, research and projects and publication of scientific and educational works. | £94,036,000
<strong>THE WOODLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294344)]<br>Our Objects are to conserve restore & re-establish trees & in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife & thereby to secure & enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment.Our vision is a UK rich in native woods & trees for people & wildlife. Life's better with trees strengthening the role of  woods & trees in our landscapes & rekindling our love of them. | £82,496,000
<strong>The Woodland Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038885)]<br>The objects of the Trust (the 'Objects') are to conserve restore and re-establish trees and in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife and thereby to secure and enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment | £82,496,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £61,765,000
<strong>THE NORTH OF ENGLAND ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [306077](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306077)]<br>To develop a substantial, expanding role in the conservation of global biodiversity and habitat enrichments and to support this through sustainable commercial activities, including managing Chester Zoo as a world class visitor attraction.Further details can be obtained via our Annual Report for 2021. | £57,388,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>TIDCOMBE FEN NATURE PARTNERSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1210368](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210368)]<br>OBJECTS ARE TO PROMOTE THE CONSERVATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY BOTH PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT AND OFFERING EDUCATION OPPORTUNITIES AT THE SITE OF SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC INTEREST KNOWN AS TIDCOMBE FEN IN TIVERTON, DEVON, DEVELOPING AN ANNUAL MANAGEMENT PLAN THAT WILL ENSURE THAT THE EXISTING BALANCE OF THE FLORA AND FAUNA IS MAINTAINED OR IMPROVED, PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES FOR VOLUNTEERS TO BE INVOLVED IN ACTIVE CONSERVATION, SURVEYS AND NATURE RELATED EDUCATION AND EDUCATING THE PUBLIC ABOUT CONSERVATION, PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT THROUGH SUPERVISED TOURS.NOTHING IN THIS CONSTITUTION SHALL AUTHORISE AN APPLICATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE CIO FOR THE PURPOSES WHICH ARE NOT CHARITABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH [SECTION 7 OF THE CHARITIES AND TRUSTEE INVESTMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT 2005] AND [SECTION 2 OF THE CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008].  | 
<strong>Tarbert & Skipness Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC033379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033379)]<br>The Company’s main Purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development.  The Company’s Purposes are:  To provide or advance the accessibility of recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.  Advancement of citizenship or Community development, including rural or urban regeneration.  To advance educational opportunities in  the Community relating to environment, culture, heritage and/or history.  To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community.  To advance the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care)  This purpose may be furthered by the provision of care to those in need in a variety of settings, provision of housing for those in need (for instance by housing associations), and by relieving the effects of ill-health  | £118,219
<strong>PONDHEAD CONSERVATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1158297](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158297)]<br>We are a conservation charity set up to restore 76 hectares of woodland which form part of the Crown lands of the New Forest, known as Pondhead Inclosure near Lyndhurst, Hampshire. We operate under a 10 year license from the Forestry Commission and our aim is to improve the area's biodiversity and public enjoyment by management of the woodland with a team of conservation volunteers. | £10,373
<strong>Polish Anglers NI</strong> [Charity number: [NI107695](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107695)]<br>Polish Angling NI encourages people to take up the sport of angling to improve their wellbeing, and through its programmes and activities and the events it organises brings people together to relieve disadvantaged groups, and to create positive social development opportunities. The organisation provides support to members of migrant communities within Northern Ireland promoting their social inclusion and wellbeing and through the organisation of activities and events assists in their integration into the community and promotes good community relations It also works with communities to promote the social inclusion of disadvantaged persons and to relieve their conditions of life. For example Angling is used to engage and work with adults with mental health issues, to get them outdoors in a natural environment, which helps to improved their sense of wellbeing, and provide the opportunity to learn new skills in a group environment, and to take up angling as a healthy recreational activity. Polish Angling NI works with a number of sure start programmes and provides an environment for fathers to build their relationships with their children and develop their parenting skills in a supportive environment, through engaging in the sport of Angling as a shared activity. Polish Angling NI also works with schools to introduce the sport of angling, educate about the environment and aquatic and insect life, and to promote an understanding of safety near lakes and waterways. | £16,226
<strong>Adventure Oban Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC050968](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050968)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit principally the community of the town of Oban and the surrounding area with the following objects:  (1) To provide and advance accessibility to our sea, coastal and natural assets around the town of Oban, organising recreational activities which will be available to members of our community and public at large with the object of improving conditions of life of the Community.  (2) Advancement of public participation in sport or physical activities, specifically the provision of facilities, equipment and tuition in outdoor activities, to improve the physical and mental health of our community.  (3) To promote collective responsibility and stewardship of our natural environment through education and awareness raising activities.  But only to the extent that the above purposes are consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development.  | £9,418
<strong>Daviot Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041081)]<br>The Company has been formed to benefit the community of Daviot as defined by the postcode units (the Community') with the following Purposes ('the Purpose'): 3.4. To manage community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general following principles of sustainable development, where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 3 2. To provide or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities. which will be available to the community and members of the public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community and following principles of sustainable development, where 'sustainable development' means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.  3.3 To advance community development, including urban or rural regeneration, following principles of sustainable development, where 'sustainable development' means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 3.4. To advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history. 3.5. To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, and conservation of the natural environment, the promotion of sustainable development, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the community, | £2,216
<strong>The Whitmuir Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC043635](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043635)]<br>The purposes of the SCIO are: - To advance the education of a wide range of people, young and old, by providing training on issues surrounding the environment, food and farming and sustainability. - To advance both human and animal health and wellbeing by promoting healthy activities and healthy eating as well as engendering an understanding of animal behaviour and welfare. - To advance citizenship and community development by promoting community cohesion, encouraging interaction between local people and improving and enhancing the natural environment. | £12,214
<strong>Ballymaconnelly Renewal Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI106840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106840)]<br>This association was established to promote the benefit of inhabitants of the Ballymaconnelly area and its environs: provide facilities in the interests of social welfare - providing space for people to meet, get active within their own community thrpugh partticpating in the structured projects eg walking group, allotments group,community gardens and riverside walk. addressing social and rural isolation, improving both mental and physical well being. Education - providing classes, talks on a wide range of subjects that have been requested by the members through consultations. Qualifications can be achieved on levels associated with subjects that can be utilised to help sustain the community - food and hygiene, child protection, level 1 OCN Horticulture, walk leaders. Recreation - social events creating opportunities for people to meet and have a chat, devlop new projects, trips and study visits, bowling, and physical activities for older people helping to improve both mental and physical wellbeing. Community development - community breakfast sessions, concerts, allotments and set up of associated groups, museum ehibitions, leading into tourism. Advance the knowledge and appreciation of the Ulster Scots language and culture (fife and drumming) - link into the Ullans group in Ballymoney. | £9,186
<strong>Search And Rescue Dog Association (Ireland North)</strong> [Charity number: [NI101234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101234)]<br>SARDA (IN) is a voluntary search and rescue organisation that provides qualified search dogs which are specifically trained to search for persons missing in a variety of terrain notably, mountainous, lowland areas (including open country and forests), and collapsed structures locally and internationally. We also provide a drowned victim search dog to locate person/s missing in rivers, lakes and sea. The standards of training and assessment that we employ are key to SARDA resources being requested by police forces and statutory agencies across the UK. The primary purpose of SARDA (IN) is to assist in the location of persons reported as missing in various environments. We assist other search teams including the PSNI, MMRT, NWMRT, Marine Coastal Agency, Community Rescue Service and the NIFRS. Further to this we also offer assistance to mountain rescue teams in South of Ireland through the Gardai. In essence we offer assistance to all the statutory agencies and voluntary teams as required but respond primarily to Police Service of Northern Ireland as primary tasking agency. All of our principles are based upon our mission statement being “..... to assist in the search and rescue of persons missing or in difficulties in inhospitable terrain and open country, collapsed structures or watercourses and to promote the use of search dogs and the work and activities of the Search And Rescue Dog Association (Ireland North).” | £123,210
<strong>WILD ABOUT THE ERME RIVER</strong> [Charity number: [1210469](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210469)]<br>1. TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION, PROTECTION, RESTORATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT OF THE RIVER ERME CATCHMENT INCLUDING THE ESTUARINE AND LOCAL COSTAL AREA THROUGH: I) IMPROVING THE REALITY AND DIVERSITY OF HABITATS AND WILDLIFE WITHIN THE RIVER ERME CATCHMENT, II) IMPROVING THE QUALITY AND DIVERSITY OF HABITATS AND WILDLIFE WITHIN THE RIVER ERME CATCHMENT, III) IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF WATER FOR PUBLIC USE AND AMENITY, IV) IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES MAY DETERMINE.2. TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC INCLUDING ORGANISATIONS CORPORATIONS, SCHOOLS OR ANY ASSOCIATION, LOCAL AUTHORITY OR GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY OR PUBLIC BODY OR REPRESENTATIVE BODY IN: I) THE UNDERSTANDING OF RIVERS, RIVER CORRIDORS, WATER IMPOUNDMENTS INCLUDING THE FAUNA, FLORA AND ECONOMIC OR SOCIAL ACTIVITY, II) THE UNDERSTANDING OF RIVER CATCHMENT MANAGEMENT, III) THE NEED FOR AND BENEFITS OF CONSERVATION, PROTECTION, RESTORATION, AND IMPROVEMENT OF AQUATIC AND TERRESTRIAL ENVIRONMENT, IV) IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES MAY DETERMINE. | 
