# Climate Emergency `EN101`

Climate Emergency is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Environment](EN.md) category.

399 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.20% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(climate (change|emergency)|global warming|green[ -]?house gasses|fossil fuels?|renewable energy|renewables)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 118 | 0.17%
£10k - £100k | 95 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 43 | 0.19%
£250k - £500k | 28 | 0.25%
£500k - £1m | 27 | 0.39%
£1m - £10m | 36 | 0.39%
Over £10m | 13 | 0.58%
Total | 360 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 278 | 0.16%
oscr | 114 | 0.46%
ccni | 7 | 0.10%
Total | 399 | 0.20%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>QUADRATURE CLIMATE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1187301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187301)]<br>QCF is an independent foundation focused on the urgent challenge of climate change, funding innovative, science-led solutions that reduce carbon emissions, remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and help the world's most vulnerable people respond to the impacts of climate change, all in pursuit of a climate-resilient future. | £221,729,288
<strong>AKO FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1151815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151815)]<br>The Foundation's main activity is to make grants to UK charities and for charitable purposes elsewhere in the world.  The priority areas for its grants are initiatives and projects which improve education, promote the arts and combat the climate emergency. The Foundation does not seek applications for grants and will not make grants in response to unsolicited applications received. | £119,980,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £84,723,000
<strong>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1091043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091043)]<br>THE CHILDREN'S INVESTMENT FUND FOUNDATION IS AN INDEPENDENT PHILANTHROPIC ORGANISATION, WORKING WITH PARTNERS TO TRANSFORM THE LIVES OF POOR AND VULNERABLE CHILDREN IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES. USING DATA AND EVIDENCE FOR IMPACT AT SCALE, CIFF'S FOCUS AREAS INCLUDE CHILDREN AND MOTHERS' HEALTH AND NUTRITION, CHILDREN'S EDUCATION AND WELFARE, AND SMART WAYS TO SLOWDOWN CLIMATE CHANGE. | £66,684,274
<strong>CDP WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [1122330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122330)]<br>CDP works with market forces to motivate companies to disclose their impacts on the environment and natural resources and take action to reduce them. CDP now holds the largest collection globally of primary climate change, water and forest-risk information and puts these insights at the heart of strategic business, investment and policy decisions. | £60,464,000
<strong>THE WASTE AND RESOURCES ACTION PROGRAMME</strong> [Charity number: [1159512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159512)]<br>WRAP's vision is a thriving world in which climate change is no longer a problem. WRAP's mission is to make the world a more sustainable place. We bring people together, we act on the facts and we drive change. Our core purpose is to help tackle climate change and protect our planet by changing the way things are produced, consumed and disposed of. | £28,738,915
<strong>THE CHARTERED INSTITUTION OF BUILDING SERVICES ENGINEERS</strong> [Charity number: [278104](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278104)]<br>CIBSE publishes authoritative, internationally recognised Guidance and Codes and sets the criteria for best practice in building services engineering, with particular emphasis on the response to climate change.  CIBSE accredits courses of study in further and higher education, approves work-based training programmes and provides routes to full professional registration. | £16,938,372
<strong>THE CLIMATE CHANGE ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1102909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102909)]<br>The Climate Group's mission is to accelerate climate action to achieve a world of no more than 1.5 degrees C of global warming & greater prosperity for all. We do this by bringing together powerful networks of business & governments that shift global markets & policies. We focus on the greatest global opportunities for change, take innovation & solutions to scale, & build ambition and pace. | £16,790,907
<strong>GREENPEACE ENVIRONMENTAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [284934](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284934)]<br>The Trust aims to achieve its objectives by funding work that includes education, scientific research, investigations and promoting sustainable development.In the medium to long term we are prioritising work in the areas of Climate change, Forests, and Oceans.We work closely with other Greenpeace entities around the world so as to maximise the impact of our charitable work. | £13,356,195
<strong>CHOOSE LOVE</strong> [Charity number: [1177927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177927)]<br>In both emergency disaster relief and protracted crises, Choose Love works to identify, close and prevent gaps in support displaced people around the world. We provide grants and other assistance to frontline partners along key migration routes and in countries experiencing conflict, persecution climate change and other drivers of forced displacement. | £12,593,084


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SEAchange- Slains Environmental Action for change SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC049195](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049195)]<br>To promote environmental protection by providing information and by demonstrating ways to help reduce climate change. To promote art and local heritage through encouraging enjoyment of art and music, and by preserving our heritage.  | £8,607
<strong>RORY'S WELL</strong> [Charity number: [1165664](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165664)]<br>Rory's Well works in Sierra Leone to provide clean water, improve food security and build resilience to climate change and economic challenges; through the digging and maintaining of wells, environmentally sustainable farming and livelihood creation with specific support for women and families. | £73,455
<strong>Britannia Sailing Trust SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC045315](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045315)]<br>The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: To advance Britain's maritime heritage and culture for future generations, by the acquisition, restoration and maintenance of the 1915 Class 1 Smack “Britannia” so that she may be preserved and opened to inspection by the public.  To advance education and raise awareness of the fragility of our oceans. of the global pollution of the seas. of the rising sea temperatures as a major factor of climate change and the imbalance of the global eco-system.  Britannia will sail again aiming to leave a carbon zero footprint, publicising the effect and promoting action against the serious damage already existent in our oceans and the consequences to the planet. To advance education by the provision of training facilities to the public in boatbuilding skills, rigging, engineering, and any relevant ancillary trade, as part of an annual maintenance programme for Britannia which will ensure that she continues to sail at sea, the very best way of preserving a historic vessel, but also keeping alive traditional skills for future generations. To advance the arts by encouraging individuals to participate in visual arts, music, writing and other activities relating to Britannia and other historic vessels and maritime heritage and culture.  | £41,512
<strong>9CC Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC051980](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051980)]<br>4.1 The organisation's purposes are the advancement of the following purposes, primarily in and for the benefit of the following geographical areas: Auchinleck. Cronberry, Logan & Lugar. Cumnock. Dalmellington. Drongan, Rankinston & Stair. Netherthird. New Cumnock. Patna. and Ochiltree & Skares: 4.1.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development. 4.1.2 the advancement of education, employability and skills development, in particular to promote volunteering and sustainable employment opportunities. 4.1.3  the advancement of rural or urban community regeneration. 4.1.4 the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.1.5 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 4.1.6 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 4.1.7 the advancement of public participation in sport, leisure and recreational activities 4.1.8 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.  4.1.9 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other economic or social disadvantage. and 4.1.10 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement by promoting renewable energy and the concept of net zero carbon and measures to address climate change issues.  | £659,387
<strong>Biosphere Bikes</strong> [Charity number: [SC051442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051442)]<br>The company's objects are:  5.1.1 to advance public participation of cycling by promoting cycling as a sustainable form of transport, advancing awareness of the benefits of cycling and removing barriers to cycling, either physical, social or economic.  5.1.2 To advance environmental protection or improvement through the promotion of cycling as an active and sustainable transport solution which in turn help to reduce the impact of climate change, carbon emissions and carbon miles travelled and work for the benefit of the community as well as the wider environment.  5.1.3 To advance the education of the public in the safe use of bicycles and their repair, encouraging supported parts of the community back to employment by engaging them in cycle maintenance training.  5.1.4 The provision and organisation of recreational facilities and activities with the aim of improving the conditions of life for the people for whom the facilities or activities are mainly intended, through the provision of cycling and other health activities to the general public.   5.1.5 To advance community development by encouraging volunteering, community engagement, encouraging learning and regeneration through physical, environmental, social and economic infrastructure improvements as well as reducing inequalities and encouraging strong intergenerational relationships locally by: Involving all sectors of the community in the recycling work and encouraging cycling across all sectors including socially disadvantaged or isolated people. | £131,197
<strong>MIGRATE CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1206762](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206762)]<br>TO ADVANCE SUCH CHARITABLE PURPOSES (ACCORDING TO THE LAWS OF ENGLAND AND WALES) AS THE TRUSTEES SEE FIT FROM TIME TO TIME, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT LIMITED TO PROVIDING RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE TO PEOPLE IN NEED WHO ARE VICTIMS OF WAR, NATURAL DISASTER, CATASTROPHE OR ARE AFFECTED BY CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL EMERGENCIES FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PROVIDING GRANTS AND DONATIONS TO ORGANISATIONS AND REGISTERED CHARITIES (OR EQUIVALENT) ACROSS THE WORLD. | £417,587
<strong>THE PERIVOLI FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1189201](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189201)]<br>The charity supports, amongst others: (a) the advancement of education, in particular through projects in Africa and by funding research, and (b) the conservation and preservation of the environment, biological diversity and the sustainable use of natural resources, in particular by funding highly scalable, science based, research initiatives to help in containing and adapting to Climate Change. | £3,496,393
<strong>Spey Catchment Initiative (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC052191](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052191)]<br>The organisation has been formed to demonstrate and deliver integrated catchment management by protecting, restoring and enhancing the features and characteristics of the River Spey catchment, with the following purposes:  1.1 To advance the environmental sustainability and resilience of the whole of the River Spey and its catchment.  1.2 To develop a cohesive and sustainable approach to landscape scale stewardship of the water environment, including the protection, restoration and enhancement of the water quality and natural heritage of the whole of the River Spey catchment.  1.3 To advance environmental improvement and/or protection including, but not limited to, preservation and conservation of the natural environment, conservation and protection of wildlife and natural habitats, promotion of sustainable development including natural flood management, renewable energy generation, and supporting sustainable consumption of energy and other resources.  1.4 To promote education and raise awareness and understanding of the whole River Spey system by engaging stakeholders and communities within and throughout the catchment, including organising or supporting others to organise meetings, lectures, conferences, seminars, broadcasts, training or any other form of educational instruction.  1.5 To support the advancement of heritage and culture, including but not limited to restoring and preserving historic sites, traditions, crafts, skills, language, artefacts, exhibits and of their associated background and history.  But such that the charity shall do so following principles of sustainable development. | £277,787
<strong>Environmental Rights Centre for Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC050257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050257)]<br>The Environmental Rights Centre for Scotland will, through public education, advice, assistance and representation, advocacy in policy and law reform and strategic public interest litigation, fulfil the following charitable purposes: * the advancement of human rights, specifically the right to a clean and healthy environment - by raising the public's awareness of and ability to exercise their procedural rights of access to information, participation in decision-making and access to justice in environmental matters, and by promoting a fairer distribution of environmental benefits, burdens and responsibilities.  * the advancement of environmental protection and improvement - by providing our services to individuals, community groups and organisations with the same purpose, and by seeking to improve the quality and accountability of environmental decision-making. * the advancement of health - by raising awareness of the detrimental impact of poor environmental quality on health outcomes, and by challenging environmental decisions which harm human health and may exacerbate health inequalities. * the advancement of citizenship and community development - by raising awareness of and working with individuals, community groups and organisations to exercise their rights in environmental law and to engage more fully with the land-use planning and legal systems. and * the advancement of education - by providing information and educational resources to increase the public's knowledge and awareness of environmental law and of their rights under environmental law.  The Organisation understands environmental law to include law relating to land-use planning, climate change, pollution control, environmental health, the conservation of biodiversity and cultural heritage, and any other field (e.g. transport, energy) to the extent that it impacts on the natural environment in Scotland.  | £440,205
<strong>ONE HOME CLIMATE SOLUTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1206810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206810)]<br>One Home helps UK citizens to adapt to a low cost, low carbon lifestyle and extreme weather events. We inspire individuals to reduce their carbon footprint and increase their resilience to floods, droughts and heatwaves. One Home creates engaging, impartial  advice that empowers and motivates citizens to go green and save money and advocate for vulnerable communities impacted by climate change. | £58,967
