# Village hall `FA107`

Village hall is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](/data/ukcat/FA) category.

8,854 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.40% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((village|town|public|memorial|recreation|community|remembrance|church|victory|parish|meeting) hall|village (centre|institute)|(recreation|parish|parochial) room|memorial institute)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,432 | 2.89%
£10k - £100k | 6,035 | 9.39%
£100k - £250k | 157 | 0.84%
£250k - £500k | 39 | 0.44%
£500k - £1m | 11 | 0.20%
£1m - £10m | 1 | 0.01%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 8,675 | 4.55%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 8,171 | 4.84%
oscr | 617 | 2.43%
ccni | 66 | 0.96%
Total | 8,854 | 4.40%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA CITIZENS ADVICE BUREAU SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1057195](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1057195)]<br>The Citizens Advice Service in Kensington & Chelsea is an independent charity serving the local community.Generalist advice services provided by our two main bureaux based at Chelsea Old Town Hall and Westway Information Centre are a mix of 'open door',telephone and appointment access. Additional services provided:Legal,Debt,Income Maximisation,HIV and other outreach work. | £1,453,148
<strong>The Iona Village Hall Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC047362](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047362)]<br>To advance citizenship, community development and volunteering within and for the benefit of the community of the island of Iona and the surrounding area by delivering a diverse variety of services and initiatives without distinction of sex, sexuality, political, religious or other opinion, with the object of improving their conditions of life.  To provide recreational facilities and organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the people of Iona.  To improve the health and well-being of all the inhabitants of the island of Iona by providing services from the Village Hall and across the island in partnership with other agencies on and off the island.  To advance education and learning by providing workshops, training sessions and courses on the island.  To advance the arts, culture and heritage by delivering events and other initiatives on the island and within the Village Hall.  | £919,468
<strong>ANSTY VILLAGE CENTRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1164436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164436)]<br>The Ansty Village Centre Trust was established in 2015 to promote community recreation and participation in sport in Ansty and the surrounding area.  The Trust is a partnership between the users of the existing Ansty village hall, the village social club and the recreation ground. | £871,304
<strong>THE BARLOW INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [521333](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521333)]<br>To improve the conditions of life of the inhabitants of the North Turton area without distinction of political, religious or other opinions, by the provision and maintenance of :- a) A village hall for use by the inhabitants for meetings, lessons, classes and other forms of recreation and leisure-time occupation.b) Sports and recreation grounds for use by the inhabitants. | £864,834
<strong>SHOREDITCH TOWN HALL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1069617](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069617)]<br>The mission of Shoreditch Town Hall Trust is to regenerate Shoreditch Town Hall for both community, and use for the benefit of the local and wider communities. | £788,909
<strong>MOLLINGTON,BACKFORD AND DISTRICT VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [702464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702464)]<br>The Hall provides rooms, equipment, bar/kitchen facilities and space for meetings, parties, theatrical performances and educational activities.  It is available to local inhabitants, without any form of discrimination, and also to outside individuals and organisations. The committee sponsors regular community activities.  There is associated managed woodland and a substantial parking area. | £777,324
<strong>WARWICKSHIRE RURAL COMMUNITY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1081017](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081017)]<br>WRCC has many contacts in communities.  Our ethos is to build the capacity of local communities, whilst ensuring that rural community life is protected and enhanced.  Our staff work with communities in a number of ways, ranging from advising village hall committees to promoting sustainable rural economic development to   enabling effective consultation with rural communities | £638,077
<strong>RIPLEY VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [1162816](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162816)]<br>Village Hall for the benefit of the parish of Ripley and Send Marsh | £622,023
<strong>The Resource Centre Derry</strong> [Charity number: [NI104471](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104471)]<br>Provides advice and information on welfare benefits Prepares and delivers hot meals to older people Runs a day care facility for older people Provides home respite for carers Runs a handyman and decorating service Operates a second-hand shop Provides clothing and furniture free of charge to those in need Operates a catering service Operates a Public Hall for local groups and events Runs a SureStart facility for families of children of pre-school age Runs an After-Schools facility Runs a Family Support Project in partnership with another local charity Operate training schemes for unemployed people Provides transport for older people & children & families | £594,528
<strong>VILLAGE HALL (ROPSLEY)</strong> [Charity number: [521863](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521863)]<br>Provision of Village Hall facilities and sports ground | £592,896


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>STONDON MASSEY VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [248651](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-248651)]<br>The Parish Hall is maintained for use by local groups, clubs and individual hirers, which currently include,W.I, darts, art, pilates, dance, first responders, parish council and casual lettings for various purposes. | £5,337
<strong>RECREATION GROUND AND SITE FOR VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [305355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-305355)]<br>Maintain the Recreation Ground for the benefit of Parishoners in providing a play area and sport facilities for education, participation and leisure. | £3,257
<strong>BISHAMPTON ABBERTON AND THROCKMORTON VILLAGE HALL AND CHILDRENS PLAYGROUND</strong> [Charity number: [523098](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523098)]<br>The charity operates a village hall in Bishampton. The facilities include a large hall area, stage with lighting, kitchen, bar, two meeting rooms, projection room and toilet facilities. Outside there is a new toddlers play area and a separate teens play area both with modern equipment. There is ample car parking. | £21,589
<strong>WESTON ON THE GREEN MEMORIAL VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [264754](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-264754)]<br>Village committees including WI, Parish Council, Weston Society, Garden Club,training days and courses, Quiz and Film Nights, dancing,social gatherings, talks, concerts | £22,901
<strong>RECULVER AND BELTINGE MEMORIAL HALL</strong> [Charity number: [302823](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302823)]<br>The charity provides a well maintained village hall available for hire by local clubs & organisations. Regular users include  Brownies, Guides, Art classes, WI, Garden Club, Bowling, Keep fit, Tia Chi, Zumba, Choir and Band practices. And Church, club fairs and polling station. Plus a venue for private parties. The hall has facilities for the disabled and well appointed stage and dressing rooms. | £2,199
<strong>FULMODESTON VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [291927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-291927)]<br>MANAGEMENT OF THE OLD SCHOOL HALL WHICH IS USED FOR SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL EVENTS.THE HALL IS AVAILABLE FOR HIRE BY INDIVIDUALS, VILLAGE ORGANISATIONS AND OUT OF VILLAGE INDIVIDUALS AND ORGANISATIONS. | £21,680
<strong>THE TILNEY-ELLIS VILLAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1125596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125596)]<br>FOR THE BENEFIT OF SUCH OF MORCHARD BISHOP CHURCH, MORCHARD BISHOP SCHOOL AND MORCHARD BISHOP MEMORIAL HALL FROM TIME TO TIME AND OF SUCH OTHER CHARITIES OR CHARITABLE PURPOSES AS ARE WHOLLY OR MAINLY OPERATING WITHIN OR ESTABLISHED FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT IN THE PARISHES OF MORCHARD BISHOP AND IT ADJOINING PARISHES IN SUCH MANNER AS THE TRUSTEES DETERMINE FIT AND TO ACCUMULATE ANY SURPLUS INCOME. | £5,711
<strong>CORFE CASTLE VILLAGE HALL CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1161531](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161531)]<br>Provide and maintain a village hall for hire by individuals or groups, for the benefit of those living in the parish of Corfe Castle. | £38,398
<strong>BRIXWORTH VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [218254](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-218254)]<br>Provision of Recreational Village Hall facilities to the local population | £27,160
<strong>MADINGLEY VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [300410](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-300410)]<br>A Village Hall, which provides a meeting place for all the Madingley villagers with modern and disabled facilities, as well as a community hall for any Madingley village event, and a safe public venue for a wide variety of clubs, societies and meeting groups at a very reasonable cost, available 365 days a year. | £2,781
