# Playing fields `FA106`

Playing fields is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

2,591 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(playing fields?|playing surfaces?|recreation grounds?|football pitch(es)?|tennis courts?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,545 | 2.09%
£10k - £100k | 869 | 1.26%
£100k - £250k | 70 | 0.33%
£250k - £500k | 28 | 0.27%
£500k - £1m | 13 | 0.20%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 2,533 | 1.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,531 | 1.48%
oscr | 50 | 0.20%
ccni | 10 | 0.14%
Total | 2,591 | 1.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Governors of Dollar Academy Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC009888](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009888)]<br>The Governing Body shall continue: 27.1 to provide, equip, furnish, maintain, administer and conduct within the existing buildings of Dollar Academy and/or such other buildings as the Governing Body shall think proper situated in or near the Parish of Dollar a school or schools for children which shall be known as Dollar Academy. 27.2 to provide education and training to any persons electronically. 27.3 to provide and maintain a library, playing fields, and any other ancillary facilities for sports and recreation for use by the school. when not required for use by the school the Governing Body may, subject to any conditions which it considers appropriate, permit use of such of the school buildings, library, playing fields, sports and recreation facilities and ancillary facilities as it may consider appropriate, by members of the public, all at such times as the Governing Body may appoint, being times at which said use will not interfere with the use of the school by pupils attending the school. 27.4 to advance heritage by the preservation and maintenance of the school's landscape and listed buildings. 27.5 to advance citizenship and community development through such means as the Governing Body decide are appropriate, which include the encouragement of voluntary activity, fund raising activities and by supporting other voluntary organisations and charities by encouraging the involvement of staff and pupils in their activities. | £24,232,149
<strong>NENE PARK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [800067](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-800067)]<br>For the public benefit to provide parks and recreation grounds for the inhabitants of Peterborough and the surrounding region and for visitors with the object of improving the quality of life for such persons. | £4,673,000
<strong>ABERPORTH VILLAGE HALL AND RECREATION GROUND</strong> [Charity number: [1199729](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199729)]<br>To administer Aberporth Village Hall  and the lands it owns for the benefit of the local population. | £2,182,238
<strong>ST. ALBANS SCHOOL WOOLLAM TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [311020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311020)]<br>The objects of St Albans School Woollam Trust are to provide and maintain playing fields and other recreational facilities for the pupils of St Albans School.In addition the trust aims to provide playing fields in sufficient number and of the highest standard to encourage participation in sporting events at all levels. This extends to a wide range of local and regional sports teams and clubs. | £1,688,885
<strong>THE LONDON PLAYING FIELDS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [302925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302925)]<br>The provision, promotion and protection of playing fields in London for sport and physical activity with the aim of creating a happier, healthier and more cohesive London by providing places to play sport forever. The society caters particularly for the young, old, disabled and disadvantaged. It also provides resources and coaching facilities for students at schools, universities and colleges. | £1,682,020
<strong>SPORT 4 LIFE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1115222](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115222)]<br>Sport 4 Life UK (S4L) believes in a level playing field where every young person has the opportunity to create a better future for themselves. S4L is proud to provide the opportunity for young people aged 11-29 to prepare for, and move into, sustained education, employment or training, by improving their employability and key life skills - through its sports-themed mentoring and training services. | £1,537,477
<strong>SOUTH BRISTOL SPORTS CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1118018](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118018)]<br>The charity is responsible for running the South Bristol Sports Centre, which consists of a gymnasium, playing fields, changing rooms and refreshment facilities near West Town Lane, South Bristol.  The charity also supports and encourages sport and healthy living in the Bristol area. | £1,324,296
<strong>SOMERDALE PAVILION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1182426](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182426)]<br>The provision of a pavilion, playing fields and other facilities for the inhabitants of Keynsham and surrounding areas and o include the relief of those individuals who are in need by reason of age, disability or ill-health. Activities include meetings, classes, sporting activities and other forms of recreation and leisure activity, to improve the conditions of life for the inhabitants. | £1,262,675
<strong>FOLKESTONE PARKS AND PLEASURE GROUNDS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1006288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1006288)]<br>The principal aim of the Charity is to ensure the maintenance of specific parks and recreation grounds so that the residents of Folkestone and Sandgate can use them for leisure pursuits and to enjoy the benefits of open spaces in an urban area. | £922,880
<strong>BATH RECREATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1173521](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173521)]<br>The objects of the Charity are the provision, with or without charge, of property in or near Bath (including but not limited to Bath Recreation Ground) for use as indoor and outdoor recreational facilities for the benefit of the public. | £863,185


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ASHAMPSTEAD RECREATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [300113](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-300113)]<br>Providing Village Hall and recreation ground for the benefit of the parish and immediate neighbouring parishes | £9,116
<strong>ST ERME PLAYING FIELD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1101129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1101129)]<br>Throughout this financial year the activities we have put on to raise money are,car treasure hunt,foot treasure hunt, participation in village Fun Day, childrens' events in holiday times, bonfire night event, rounders match, our  annual quiz, annual childrens christmas party and evening discos.  We also hire out the main  hall for parties, lectures, training sessions etc. | £93,766
<strong>THE BURNHAM MEMORIAL RECREATION GROUND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1058710](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058710)]<br>The provision of facilities for recreation with the object of improving the conditions of life of the inhabitants of Burnham and the surrounding district. | £770
<strong>KIDD LEGACY BEING A PART OF CENTRAL PARK, DARTFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1134257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134257)]<br>Public recreation ground adjoining Central Park Dartford Kent | £13,050
<strong>MELTHAM RECREATION GROUND</strong> [Charity number: [523776](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523776)]<br>sport and recreation | 
<strong>SEVERN BEACH VILLAGE HALL AND PLAYING FIELDS</strong> [Charity number: [265636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265636)]<br>The Charity exists to provide and maintain the village hall and playing fields. The hall has regular user groups, and is also hired out for parties, public meetings, etc. The outside area includes play equipment, a multi-use games area, and a football pitch.  Additional facilities will be added as finances permit. We host the annual Severn Festival which facilitates fund-raising by local groups. | £16,730
<strong>North Queensferry Gala Committee</strong> [Charity number: [SC043097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043097)]<br>The purposes of the Committee shall be I the advancement of citizenship and community development, achieved through l.i organising 'open to all' fundraising events, such as race nights, bike rides etc which will involve members of the community in organising these activities as well as involving members of the community in attending these activities  l.ii organising 'open to all' Gala week events, such as running/cycle races, beach activities, football games, netball game etc which will involve members of the community in organising these activities as well as involving members of the community in taking part in these activities 2 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, achieved through 2.i educating the children ofNorth Queensferry of the history and origins of the name and site, the legacy of Queen Margaret and the origins ofmany of the sites and names within the village 2.ii celebrating and remembering the legacy of Queen Margaret through the reenactment of the landing of Queen Maragaret. This will take the form of a gala procession from the village pier to Queen Margaret playing fields, the appointment of Gala King and Gala Queen (King Malcolm and Queen Margaret) as well as a Royal entourage, and the Gala pronouncement telling the story of the landing | £4,426
<strong>COLONEL WILLIAM LLEWELLEN PALMER EDUCATIONAL CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1015681](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015681)]<br>To benefit children and young persons up to the age of 25 attending, or who have attended, schools in Bradford on Avon, Wiltshire and for the provision of recreational facilities for the same age group in the town.  Providing allotments and a recreation ground known as sladesbrook.  Distributing awards. | £64,354
<strong>Dungiven Celtic Youth Football Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI102466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102466)]<br>Dungiven Celtic Youth FC runs a number of programmes for children between the ages of 5-17 years old to take part in football. The organisations core activities and services are providing facilities for children and young people to take part in Sport, these activities vary depending on availability of facilities within the locality; however we hold a minimum of one night provision for all age groups. During winter months we hire Dungiven Leisure Centre, Curragh Road Floodlight all-weather stones, Gortnaghy Playing Fields, Claudy Floodlight 3G, Limavady 3G and Ballyguddin playing fields. Some of these facilities are outside of Dungiven, which means we require transport. These sessions include development of fundamental movement skills, development of physical literacy, mobility and skills. We have 15 teams who represent Dungiven Celtic Youth FC including a dedicated girl’s team at Under 8 level; these teams range from U8 to U17 and play in the North West and Coleraine District Youth League and the Coleraine Youth League respectively. We intermittently cater for approximately 180 children and young people through these services. Additional to core activities, Dungiven Celtic Youth FC offer seasonal coaching (summer camps), cross community events and fun day’s; throughout programmes we often include education elements through facilitated information and awareness sessions. We work in partnership with local community organisations to offer pathways to take part in Sport. We also aim to offer opportunities for coaches and volunteers to become qualified, educated and active within society. All volunteers are educated with a minimum of first aid, child protection and Access NI. We are an all inclusive organisation who offers opportunities for all regardless of ability, gender, race or social background. | £53,759
<strong>THE GRAVEL PIT CLOSE RECREATION GROUND CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [300079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-300079)]<br>Charity owns land which is used as recreation for the public classed as a Recreation ground, helps support financial maintenance.  Taken on new asset of building transferred from Woburn Sands Youth Club. | £55,021
