# Green space `FA104`

Green space is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

3,613 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.78% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(gardens?|landscape park|green[- ]?space(es)?|woodlands?|shrublands?|grasslands?|parklands?|village (greens?|ponds?)|allotments|millennium green|urban farm|parks|(public|nature|rural|memorial) (reserves?|parkland|park)|green belt|footpath|public open space|riverbank|landscape park|meadow)s?\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,784 | 2.37%
£10k - £100k | 966 | 1.42%
£100k - £250k | 279 | 1.34%
£250k - £500k | 131 | 1.32%
£500k - £1m | 91 | 1.48%
£1m - £10m | 147 | 1.73%
Over £10m | 18 | 0.88%
Total | 3,416 | 1.79%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,949 | 1.73%
oscr | 527 | 2.12%
ccni | 137 | 1.90%
Total | 3,613 | 1.78%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL OPERA HOUSE COVENT GARDEN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [211775](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211775)]<br>Presentation of opera and ballet performances at the Royal Opera House Covent Garden and tours in the United Kingdom and overseas | £132,687,000
<strong>THE ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222879)]<br>The RHS was founded in 1804 to inspire passion and excellence in horticulture.  We want to enrich everyone's life through plants, and make the UK a greener and more beautiful place.  To achieve our aim we undertake scientific research; provide education, training and horticultural advice; support community horticulture projects; and share our renowned gardens and shows with the public. | £122,096,000
<strong>THE FOOTBALL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1079309](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079309)]<br>The Charity's current and on-going activities are:to put in place a new generation of modern facilities in parks, local leagues and schools;to provide capital/revenue support to increase participation in grass roots football, andto strenghten the links between football and the community and to harness its potential as a force for good in society. | £106,323,000
<strong>THE ROYAL PARKS [LIMITED]</strong> [Charity number: [1172042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172042)]<br>We look after eight of London's largest open spaces; Hyde, The Green, Richmond, Greenwich, St James's, Bushy and The Regent's Parks, and Kensington Gardens. We also manage other important open spaces in the capital including Grosvenor Square Garden, Brompton Cemetery, Victoria Tower Gardens, Canning Green and Poet's Corner. | £104,642,000
<strong>The Woodland Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038885)]<br>The objects of the Trust (the 'Objects') are to conserve restore and re-establish trees and in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife and thereby to secure and enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment | £82,496,000
<strong>THE WOODLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294344)]<br>Our Objects are to conserve restore & re-establish trees & in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife & thereby to secure & enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment.Our vision is a UK rich in native woods & trees for people & wildlife. Life's better with trees strengthening the role of  woods & trees in our landscapes & rekindling our love of them. | £82,496,000
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of The Royal Botanic Garden Edinburgh</strong> [Charity number: [SC007983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007983)]<br>1. The advancement of education 2. The advancement of arts, heritage, culture, or science 3. The advancement of environmental protection and improvement. | £30,525,000
<strong>STEVENAGE LEISURE</strong> [Charity number: [1144638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144638)]<br>The provision of affordable facilities and activities for everyone in the interest of social welfare, provided to the public at large, to preserve good health, well being and stimulation through community participation in sports, recreation, fitness, health, education, performing arts, galleries, museums, theatres, libraries, community halls, parks and leisure centres | £25,101,400
<strong>CHATSWORTH HOUSE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [511149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511149)]<br>Opening the House and gardens and part at Chatsworth every day from mid March to Christmas.Holding various events and exhibitions.Offering educational programmes for school visits and self-led activities. Holding an annual Country Fair.Holding international horse trials and other sporting events. Allowing use of grounds and buildings for other charity activities. | £17,406,605
<strong>The British Horse Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC038516](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038516)]<br>(1) To promote and advance the education, training and safety of the public in all matters relating to the horse. (2) To promote the use, breeding, well-being, safety, environment, health and management of the horse for the public benefit. (3) To promote community participation in healthy recreation involving the horse.  (4) To promote and facilitate the prevention of cruelty, neglect or harm to horses and to promote the relief, safety, sanctuary, rescue and welfare of horses in need of care, attention and assistance. (5) To promote and secure the provision, protection and preservation of rights of way and of access for ridden and driven horses over public roads, highways, footpaths, bridleways, carriageways, public paths and other land. Horses for the purpose of the objects means any member of the family Equidae. | £16,106,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COTHAM GARDENS PRIMARY SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER AND FRIENDS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1005349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1005349)]<br>The charity exists to:-  develop more extended relationships between staff, parents and others associated with the school-  engage in activities which support the school and advance the education of the pupils-  provide and assist in the provision of facilities for education at the school which are not normally provided by the Local Education Authority | £31,599
<strong>RECREATION GROUND DARTON</strong> [Charity number: [504514](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-504514)]<br>A public park and recreation or pleasure ground for the benefit of the urban district of Darton and the neighbourhood. | £18,310
<strong>HELMSLEY WALLED GARDEN LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1074448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074448)]<br>Restoration and preservation of 5 acre walled garden.Horticultural education and training, particularly for young persons and those with learning or physical disabilities. | £302,447
<strong>North Glenrothes Community Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC038193](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038193)]<br>The general purpose of the Community Council is to ascertain, co-ordinate and express to the local authorities for the area, and to public authorities, the views of the community which it represents, in relation to matters for which those authorities are responsible, and to take such action in the interests of that community as appears to it to be expedient and practicable. It will encourage and promote community participation and a sense of community spirit within the community. To ascertain, co-ordinate and express the local authorities for the area and to public authorities, the views of the community which it represents, in relation to matters for which those authorities are responsible, and to take such action in the interests of that community as appears to it to be expedient and practicable. It will encourage and promote community participation and a sense of community spirit within the community.  In particular the Community Council will seek to maintain and enhance the environment of the community of north Glenrothes - its natural, physical and social environment. The Council will seek to improve the environment of North Glenrothes - its natural physical and social environment. The Council will seek to improve the environment of North Glenrothes by the provision and maintenance of public parks and other amenities. | £1,793
<strong>Adventure  Centre For Education (ACE)</strong> [Charity number: [SC041556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041556)]<br>(1). To provide (or to assist in the provision of) recreational facilities particularly within the Operating Area, and organise (or to assist in the organisation of) recreational activities particularly within the Operating Area, with such facilities/activities being available to members of the public at large and/or those who, by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities with the object of improving their conditions of life. (2). The preservation, restoration and improvement of the environment in and around the Operating Area through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space, public footpaths and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and on the basis that in doing so, the company shall seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use. (3). The promotion for the public benefit of the preservation (whether wholly or in part) of buildings and other structures of historic and/or environmental significance within the Operating Area. 4). The promotion of health benefits of outdoor environmental education, and with particular reference to increasing mental wellbeing, healthy eating, and social inclusion, family cohesion, and the relief of poverty, by providing opportunities to take part in outdoor environmental programmes.  MAXIMUM TEXT LIMIT REACHED, PLEASE CONTACT CHARITY FOR FULL OBJECTS | £223,425
<strong>Blackwood Estate Community Association SCIO </strong> [Charity number: [SC049354](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049354)]<br>4 The organisation?s purposes are: 4.1 The advancement of citizenship and community development by providing an area of public access in which we can partner with other local community organisations, bringing local residents together and enabling greater community cohesion in our village. 4.2 The provision of recreational activities, by enabling local residents to walk from their village on public paths to a wild, secluded woodland of natural beauty for general recreation. 4.3 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement, by permanently safeguarding an area of natural woodland, situated in an extremely historic site from future housing development and habitat loss.  | £44,606
<strong>VILLAGE GREEN - NORTH STOKE</strong> [Charity number: [270927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270927)]<br>Provision of open space for recreation | 
<strong>WALLASEY G H PEERS CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1000920](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000920)]<br>The Wallasey G. H. Peers was est 1877. Club membership is male & female from 17 yrs to some in their eighties. There are out-door bowls April/Oct for those unable to play. There are seats in the extensive rose garden for them to watch & enjoy refreshments, snooker (4 tables) is available 12 months, with bridge played Mon-Wed-Fri. Social afternoon, last Fri of every month, with tea & cakes. | £11,075
<strong>OLD BAKEHOUSE MILLENNIUM GREEN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1072480](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072480)]<br>We have created and maintain a wildlife garden close to the centre of Morpeth. It provides a haven for residents and visitors. Development and maintenance is organised by the Trustees with the help of a group of Friends.It is also used by local schools from time to time and by the Cubs, Scouts and Guides. Each June we hold fund raising Garden Fete. | £1,780
<strong>Forfar Open Garden</strong> [Charity number: [SC045844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045844)]<br>To advance the provision of support for those who are disadvantaged by reason of physical or mental disability in Forfar and environs to promote the medium of gardening as a healthful and therapeutic activity and to develop an educational aspect for appropriate clients to provide a locus for gardening activity in Forfar that will attract support from the community for the above aims to relieve pressure on formal parts of the health and social care systems by the provision of charitable alternatives for treatment  | £55,239
