# Community cafe `FA102`

Community cafe is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

882 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.44% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(caf[eé]|coffee .* ?shop|cafeteria|tea (shop|bar))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 134 | 0.18%
£10k - £100k | 324 | 0.47%
£100k - £250k | 202 | 0.95%
£250k - £500k | 95 | 0.92%
£500k - £1m | 52 | 0.81%
£1m - £10m | 38 | 0.43%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 846 | 0.44%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 784 | 0.46%
oscr | 59 | 0.24%
ccni | 39 | 0.54%
Total | 882 | 0.44%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE WILF WARD FAMILY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1140852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140852)]<br>The Trust delivers supported living, short breaks, residential care, direct payments support agencies and community domiciliary care services across Yorkshire for children, adults and older people. The Trust also provides vocational training and work placements through its cafe. The ethos of the organisation is to promote independence, choice and control for all people using its services. | £26,246,557
<strong>NOW Project Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100093)]<br>NOW Group is a social enterprise that provides a range of services that support people with learning disabilities and autism to realise their full potential and change their lives for the better. Our services focus on supporting people into employment, training, transition and volunteering. Our support includes accredited training to build up skills and confidence, as well as work experience and voluntary work placements We also support people already in employment and employers themselves, providing services such as Disability Awareness training and workplace support for employee, employers and co-workers. We support families in which parents have mild to moderate learning difficulties or an Autistic Spectrum Condition. We work with expectant and new parents with children under five in the Belfast area to support them by building confidence, develop skills and make them more connected to their communities. When they are ready we will provide opportunities for parents to move on to NOW’s Training, Volunteering and Employment Services and plan their future. We also support young school leavers with learning difficulties or autism and their parents/carers to explore future options and gain independence through training, mentoring and sampling work placements. We help them to start planning early and help take the anxiety out of taking that big next step from school into the world. It is important families understand their options so we provide work visits, work placements, and accredited training, helping shape a package of support for parents/carers and each young person leaving school. We operate Loaf Catering, corporate catering and cafe business providing accredited training sites for our clients as well as offering employment opportunities to those with learning needs. | £4,737,480
<strong>TAMESIDE, OLDHAM AND GLOSSOP MIND</strong> [Charity number: [1123549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123549)]<br>Mental health charity with an ethos of promoting well being social inclusion and recovery through an ever changing variety of activites. Includes counselling, CBT, vocational and therapeutic courses, advocacy, community engagement, carers support, catering academy, vegetarian cafe and horticultural services. | £4,667,742
<strong>The Lyric Theatre (NI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100173)]<br>Lyric Theatre NI owns and maintains the Lyric Theatre. Through a Licence Agreement it licences the use of the theatre on a non-exclusive basis to its wholly owned subsidiary, Lyric Players Theatre Productions Limited, for the production and staging of theatrical performances and the running of educational classes for people of all ages and backgrounds. Lyric Players Theatre Productions also operates a cafe bar within the theatre for the general public in Northern Ireland and, during performances, the audience attending the theatre. | £4,532,151
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST THOMAS WITH ST STEPHEN, TELFORD PARK</strong> [Charity number: [1134649](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134649)]<br>We proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ and work for God's Kingdom of love, justice, and peace through missional work in our local community and further afield.   We provide facilities for public worship as well as community projects and activities.  We work to promote Christian values by serving those in our local area through youth work, a lunch club, pastoral visiting, and our community cafe. | £3,498,593
<strong>The MAC (Metropolitan Arts Centre)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100808](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100808)]<br>The MAC is an arts and cultural centre in the heart of Belfast’s Cathedral Quarter. Its mission is to be a centre of artistic excellence that positively changes people lives. We deliver an outstanding programme ranging from crowd-pleasing theatre, dance, music and visual art to experimental new works. We promote accessibility and inclusion and celebrate the very best in home grown arts as well as bringing the rest of the world of contemporary art to Belfast. The MAC is an award-winning building containing two theatres, three visual art galleries, the Den - a focal point for our Learning and Participation (L&P) programmes, the Family Room, four multi-purpose spaces designed for rehearsals, conferences and dance classes, offices for resident companies, an artist-in-residence studio a number of smaller meeting rooms and a café-bar. Since opening in April 2012 the MAC has exceeded all expectations by welcoming over 250,000 visitors each year. Our organisation is committed to making everything we do accessible and relevant to people who would not normally take part in the arts. Our L&P programmes have begun to play a leading role in the wider city and regional strategies of harnessing the arts as a mechanism for social and political change. This work contributes to the achievement of goals for targeting social need, promoting good relations and contributing to antipoverty and equality agendas. The MAC aims to act as a catalyst for creating improved social cohesion by facilitating a long-term, meaningful cultural discourse with all communities in Northern Ireland. Our working patterns are based on long-term engagement with the hardest to reach communities and will enable us to deliver work that contributes to the development of a shared society. The MAC is a space which enshrines progressive ideals, promotes equality and in which everyone is welcomed. Our programmes aim to ensure that the MAC is a vital civic space, valued and used by the communities around it. | £3,353,113
<strong>THE CHARLESTON TRUST (BLOOMSBURY IN SUSSEX)</strong> [Charity number: [1107313](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107313)]<br>Charleston is a house, garden and art gallery situated in the South Downs National Park. It was the home of twentieth century artists Vanessa Bell and Duncan Grant, who were key members of the Bloomsbury group. Charleston has a shop and cafe and is available for venue hire. It is open all year. | £2,957,726
<strong>MILTON KEYNES CHRISTIAN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1119304](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119304)]<br>Milton Keynes Christian Centre is a contemporary church seeking to benefit the citizens of Milton Keynes through the provision of a range of community activities including: Sunday services, Day Nursery, Children & Youth ministry, Senior Citizens focus, Gospel Outreaches, International Missions, Leadership & Personal development, variety of Small Groups and Counselling, Conferencing, & Coffee shop. | £2,390,526
<strong>ST MARTIN-IN-THE-FIELDS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1110406](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110406)]<br>St Martin in the Fields Trust is raising money for the charitable and cultural work taking place across St Martin. We share ground, physically and philosophically, with the St Martin congregation, the St Martin cafe and live cultural events, The Connection at St Martin in the Fields and all the other organisations adding to the wider kindness. | £2,372,995
<strong>WINDMILL HILL CITY FARM LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [277287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277287)]<br>Windmill Hill City Farm provides a range of educational, recreational and therapeutic services and facilities to the local community including a farm and community gardens, a cafe, a variety of courses, activities and facilities for children and young people (a day-care nursery and playground), older peoples groups, and services for people with mental health issues or learning difficulties. | £2,326,158


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Living Rivers Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103314](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103314)]<br>Living Rivers Trust endeavours to create environments, at home and further afield, for people - whatever their background to develop spiritually, mentally, educationally, physically, socially, and financially. This is done through various instruments (Projects): Churches - Living Rivers Church, Living Rivers City Church, Living Rivers Northwest The Trust has a congregation of those from various cultures, backgrounds and ethnicities and holds regular worship services along with relevant and practical bible teaching, and prayer meetings. The Trust also has pastoral care teams to help both church and non-church attenders. Events and activities are for groups of all ages and backgrounds. Education. To fulfil the objects of education, fitness and emotional wellbeing, the Trust has created training opportunities for people of all ages, abilities and backgrounds, including Living Rivers Christian School. The Trust works with front line care agencies to develop programs to suit those in need of support and assistance. Community Café To fulfil the objects of creating environments for people to discover and engage with those of different and varying backgrounds and build networks and relationships between various stakeholders in the community the Trust runs He-Brews coffee house. This facilitates a range of local community groups, charities, those in need, and the general public. Catalyst To fulfil the objects of helping assimilate those who have become disenfranchised back into mainstream society the Trust has created environments and structures. One instrument is Living Rivers Lighthouse Hostel for homeless men. Another is Living Rivers Bach House to assist people desiring to live free from addictive lifestyles. The Trust has also partnered with a number of other charities and agencies. The Trust holds events and hosts many other charitable groups and community groups that fall under its purposes and objectives, eg VCSN, Age Concern, and other non-profit groups. | £652,998
<strong>CENTRE OF WELLBEING, TRAINING & CULTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1037518](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1037518)]<br>Centre of Wellbeing, Training & Culture (CWTC) strives to be an important creative hub model organisation ensuring access to the accredited training, health awareness, dementia, wellbeing cafe and arts for mental health for all ages, work placements, encouraging a community cohesion and successfully supporting, partnering, and collaboration. | £65,241
<strong>The Recovery Tree Charity</strong> [Charity number: [1149848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149848)]<br>Offering opportunities for people experiencing mental health problems to regain confidence and self esteem through learning new skills and participating in therapeutic activities.Preserve and protect good mental health of people on the road to recovery by providing them with positive, work-related opportunities in a cafe open to the public in order to take them a step nearer the world of work. | £563,212
<strong>Starting Step Ltd.</strong> [Charity number: [SC050297](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050297)]<br>4 The company?s objects are to use hospitality and horticulture to relieve the needs of, and educate, those with an experience of the criminal justice system and those from vulnerable and isolated groups. The company will also advance environmental protection and improvement. In furtherance of this the company will:  4.1 provide a holistic, bespoke training and support service to assist individuals who have experience of the criminal justice system and those from vulnerable and isolated groups in realising their potential whilst developing life and employability skills  4.2  provide and run a training café to provide real life opportunities for skills development for those individuals who have experience of the criminal justice system and who are at risk of committing offences including those from vulnerable groups, in both cases, their spouses, children and dependents who are in need.  4.3  provide and run a kitchen and landscape gardens to grow organic produce whilst providing real life opportunities for skills development for those individuals who have experience of the criminal justice system and who are at risk of committing offences including those from vulnerable groups, in both cases, their spouses, children and dependents who are in need.  4.4 improve the health of those involved by using the benefits of hospitality and horticulture to educate on nutrition, mental and physical health  4.5 promote and advance environmental protection by using the kitchen and landscaped garden as a training tool in sustainability and land protection.  4.6 promote and advance protection of the environment by promoting the reintroduction of indigenous plants and developing a tree plantation for replanting throughout local and wider communities.  4.7 promote sustainable techniques in land management to include the wider Scottish landscape.  4.8 to advance public education in all matters relating to offenders and ex-offenders and to support the eradication of the stigma attaching to offenders and ex-offenders.  4.9 advance such similar purposes, develop any other projects, initiatives, or activities for the benefit of the community as the Directors may consider appropriate  | £34,110
<strong>NOTTINGHAM CONTEMPORARY</strong> [Charity number: [1116670](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116670)]<br>Organising and presenting international exhibitions of contemporary art and related events including performances, artists' commissions, films. Organising a broad education programme for a diverse audience from the city and region. Collaborating with artists and other organisations in this country and abroad. Operate cafe/bar and shop. | £2,252,780
<strong>AURORA WELLBEING CENTRES</strong> [Charity number: [1166462](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166462)]<br>FREE BEAUTY THERAPY AND HOLISTIC TREATMENTS FOR LOCAL PEOPLE WITH CANCER, AT AURORA CENTRES IN DRI, MEXBOROUGH, SCOT LANE, WORKSOP.FUNDRAISING ACTIVITIES E.G. ANNUAL FASHION EVENTS, FUN RUNS, MUSIC FESTIVALS.COFFEE MORNINGS AND SUPPORT GROUPS.AURORA CARE TO GIVE CHARITY SHOP ON SCOT LANE, DONCASTER, AND BRIC-A-BRAC SHOP AT WORKSOP WELLBEING CENTRE; PROCEEDS OF WHICH ARE DONATED TO AURORA. | £716,197
<strong>SUSSEX EMMAUS</strong> [Charity number: [1053354](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053354)]<br>The Emmaus Brighton & Hove Community offers a home and meaningful work to 53 men and women, many of whom have been formerly homeless. 7 social enterprises generate funds which support the work of the Community - 6 retail shops and a cafe. Residents (Companions) can stay as long as they need. The Community is committed to helping those in greatest need through its solidarity work. | £1,887,913
<strong>THE LYTTELTON WELL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1001139](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001139)]<br>The advancement of the Christian religon by spreading the Gospel of Jesus Christ; the relief of poverty, sickness and distress; the relief and rehabilitation of the mentally ill and of disabled persons; the relief of the aged; the promotion of charitable work of churches in Malvern.We do this by running a community cafe, bookshop, counselling service, chapliancy service, and foodbank. | £265,735
<strong>NORTH SMETHWICK DEVELOPMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1035308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1035308)]<br>Provides a range of services and activities either independently or with other local agencies to improve the lives of local families, adults, children and young people. Run time-bound projects including energy and environmental projects  We run several small social enterprises providing employment for local people such as match day car parking, community cafe. | £300,291
<strong>SHINE YOUTH</strong> [Charity number: [1185452](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185452)]<br>We provide 1:1 pastoral mentoring, group courses and a Wellbeing Cafe for young people which promote their positive self-esteem, mental health and identity in order that they can thrive educationally and in family, community and work life. This includes young people who are coping with loss experienced as a result of bereavement and family breakdown and those who are at risk of school exclusion. | £84,409
