# Youth centre `FA108`

Youth centre is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

229 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(youth cent(er|re))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 63 | 0.09%
£10k - £100k | 103 | 0.15%
£100k - £250k | 32 | 0.15%
£250k - £500k | 14 | 0.14%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 4 | 0.05%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 220 | 0.11%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 191 | 0.11%
ccni | 30 | 0.42%
oscr | 8 | 0.03%
Total | 229 | 0.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NEW HORIZON YOUTH CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [276943](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276943)]<br>Day centre for young people age 16-21: benefits, housing advice, careers advice,education&training, employment, IT,ESOL, literacy, numeracy, cookery, art classes, drama classes, gym & fitness sessions, music production, women's group, men' group, counselling, nurse, mental health support, female sex worker project, street outreach, prison work,volunteer project, laundry/showers/clothes, free lunch | £3,964,029
<strong>CORAM'S FIELDS AND THE HARMSWORTH MEMORIAL PLAYGROUND</strong> [Charity number: [302963](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-302963)]<br>An open access 7 acre children's playground and children's centre with an after school club and holiday activities and sports programme for children up to 16 years and a youth centre for 13-19 year olds.  1000 children daily in summer from diverse local community of south Camden. Grade II listed site formerly the Foundling Hospital site. Adults must have a child with them to come in. | £2,264,867
<strong>BRIGHTON YOUTH CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1098557](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098557)]<br>This Charity was formed to take over the assets of Brighton Youth Centre (charity no 305175) which it did from 1 April 2007.  The objectives of Brighton Youth Centre are to help and educate children and young people, to enable them to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities. | £1,456,680
<strong>The Boathouse Youth</strong> [Charity number: [1149320](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149320)]<br>The Boathouse Youth is a Children's Charity based in Blackpool that provides positive recreational and educational activities for children and young people Aged 5 - 17. Our activities are categorised into three departments: Centre Based (within our Youth Centre); Detached & Outreach (on the streets and in the local schools) and Activities & Residential. | £1,048,476
<strong>THE SALMON YOUTH CENTRE IN BERMONDSEY</strong> [Charity number: [278979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278979)]<br>Salmon Youth Centre is unique in bringing to its work a toolbox of youth work skills within a framework of Christian life and values, we use our expertise and specialist workers in arts, sports and personal and social development  to inspire young people in Southwark, including the vulnerable and those at risk, to develop ambition for learning and work. | £968,715
<strong>BELLE VUE COMMUNITY, SPORTS & YOUTH CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1099395](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099395)]<br>Belle Vue Centre offer a varied choice of charitable activities to many different diverse organisations and service users. | £740,622
<strong>Citadel Youth Centre SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC047933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047933)]<br>4 The organisation 's purposes are: 4.1 To advance education among young people who are resident in Edinburgh ('the Operating Area'). 4.2 To relieve poverty among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.3 To relieve unemployment among young people resident in the Operating Area, in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. 4.4 To advance health among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.5 To relieve those young people resident in the Operating Area who are in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or some other disadvantage. 4.6 To advance citizenship among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.7 To provide recreational facilities and/or to organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life of young people resident within the Operating Area. 4.8 To promote and offer support to other similar projects and programmes which further charitable purposes, for the benefit of young people resident in the Operating Area.  | £700,592
<strong>Holy Trinity Youth Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI102166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102166)]<br>Holy Trinity Youth Centre was established to provide, maintain and promote facilities and activities of a social, spiritual educational and recreational nature with the object of improving the conditions of life of children and young people without distinction of sex, political, religious or other opinion. | £584,502
<strong>YASEEN YOUTH DEVELOPMENT LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1198550](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198550)]<br>Yaseen Youth is charity focused on enabling to empowering and develop the youth through programmes and activities.We deliver a wide range of services these include having a youth centre, sports programmes, Educational classes, counselling service and monthly activities and trips. | £493,738
<strong>WINCHCOMBE ARTS & COMMUNITY HUB</strong> [Charity number: [1202584](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202584)]<br>Seeking to acquire a redundant church building in the centre of the town of Winchcombe, in order to use it for:- promoting the arts by encouraging access to, engagement with and participation and creativity in the arts;- advancing education in the arts;- advancing in life and helping young people by the provision of a youth centre;- providing a community centre for local, community groups. | £468,446


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PERSHORE RIVERSIDE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1156413](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156413)]<br>The provision and maintenance of a  youth centre and facilities for helping and educating boys and girls resident in Pershore and the neighbourhood, through leisure time activities so to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capabilities that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society and that their conditions of life may be improved. | £128,404
<strong>Clonmore Youth Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI107567](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107567)]<br>Clonmore Youth Club strives to create a youth centre which offers an inclusive and shared space where children, young people and the community can grow, develop and actively participate in community life. Through our work Clonmore Youth Club hopes to inspire and empower children, young people and the community by creating opportunities through which they can develop confidence, self-esteem and social skills, meet others from different backgrounds and use their talents to benefit others. | £52,997
<strong>Markets Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI107203](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107203)]<br>The MDA comprises of 14 Committee Members, 4 Full Time Staff and a pool of 25-30 local volunteers. The MDA is the anchor tenant in the Market Community Centre and works with a range of local community and voluntary groups in order to carry out its purpose, including the Market Women's Group, Réalta Na Cromóige, Sure Start, Pangúr Ban, St Malachy's Youth Centre and the Indian's Women's Group. In addition, we work with a range of statutory agencies and public bodies on a daily basis, for example Belfast City Council, the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, the Department for Communities etc. The four MDA staff roles are Community Development Officer, Community Regeneration Officer, Community Transformation Initiative and Inner South Belfast Neighbourhood Partnership Co-ordinator. The responsibilities of the staff members range from engagement, consultation, lobbying, advice and support, organising training and educational programmes, delivering health and well being projects, campaigning for housing, progressing the Market Regeneration Plan, organising public meetings, applying for funding for community initiatives such as summer intervention programmes, seasonal festivities and environmental projects. In addition the MDA is represented on a variety of Boards including Sure Start, the Housing Community Network, the Inner South Belfast Neighbourhood Partnership and the Cromac Regeneration Initiative, which is a cross community enterprise with the Market, Donegall Pass and the Lower Ormeau. The MDA works for the betterment of the Market area through partnership working and co-production of plans, projects and programmes with the Market residents. | £203,735
<strong>GREATER MANCHESTER SOMALI COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1170841](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170841)]<br>To provide education, employment and training for young people and their families.To establish a Somali Youth Centre to provide social and recreational activities as well as facilities for the well-being of young people, parents and the local community.To act as an umbrella organization for Somali voluntary and community sector organizations in Greater Manchester. | £1,034
<strong>THE MELIDEN YOUTH CENTRE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1057918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1057918)]<br>To work with the community to provide a purpose built youth centre for the young people of Meliden | 
<strong>Fairhill Youth Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI102760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102760)]<br>Fairhill Youth Centre is situated at the north end of Maghera. It caters for children and young people by providing a range of youth orientated activities in a range of evenings throughout the week. There are planned programmes of activities aimed at ensuring that young people have the opportunity to meet and enjoy their leisure time in a safe supervised environment. Young people also participate in activities designed to develop their physical fitness, their mental resilience and their emotional capacities. Normal youth activities such as football, basketball, netball are combined with discos, dance, health and beauty and these are accompanied by regular workshops on issues such as substance abuse and misuse, safety awareness, cyber bullying and respect for themselves and others and their communities. The Centre works under the guidance of the NEELB Youth Service guidelines. | £77,751
<strong>YOUNG PEOPLE MARCH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1120556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120556)]<br>YOUNG PEOPLE MARCH LTD IS A YOUTH CENTRE IN THE RURAL TOWN OF MARCH, WE PROVIDE A SAFE PLACE FOR YOUNG PEOPLE FROM THE AGES OF 7YRS TO 25YRS TO MEET AND SOCIALISE. WE PROVIDE A FACILITY FOR RECREATION AND OTHER ACTIVITIES SUCH AS CLUBS, DROP IN SESSIONS,LIFE SKILLS, EDUCATION DISCOS,SPORTS, TRAINING, VOLUNTEERING AND MUCH MORE. | £227,193
<strong>WEM YOUTH CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1125090](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125090)]<br>Weekly Activity sessions for three age groups held at youth centre. Occasional external or outdoor activity events and weekends. | £7,260
<strong>Citadel Youth Centre SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC047933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047933)]<br>4 The organisation 's purposes are: 4.1 To advance education among young people who are resident in Edinburgh ('the Operating Area'). 4.2 To relieve poverty among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.3 To relieve unemployment among young people resident in the Operating Area, in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. 4.4 To advance health among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.5 To relieve those young people resident in the Operating Area who are in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or some other disadvantage. 4.6 To advance citizenship among young people resident in the Operating Area. 4.7 To provide recreational facilities and/or to organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life of young people resident within the Operating Area. 4.8 To promote and offer support to other similar projects and programmes which further charitable purposes, for the benefit of young people resident in the Operating Area.  | £700,592
<strong>VISION (ROSSENDALE)</strong> [Charity number: [1138523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138523)]<br>Vision is a Christian charity based in Rossendale. We aim to improve the lives of local young people by helping them find hope and support when they need it most. Every year our team meets thousands of children and teenagers in schools, online, and at our youth centre where we run weekly events and activities. | £67,357
