# Community centre `FA103`

Community centre is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](/data/ukcat/FA) category.

3,335 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.66% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(community( and)?( sports?)? cent(re|er)s?|community action)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 817 | 0.99%
£10k - £100k | 1,656 | 2.55%
£100k - £250k | 410 | 2.12%
£250k - £500k | 140 | 1.54%
£500k - £1m | 65 | 1.13%
£1m - £10m | 38 | 0.48%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.11%
Total | 3,128 | 1.63%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,846 | 1.69%
oscr | 355 | 1.40%
ccni | 134 | 1.88%
Total | 3,335 | 1.66%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>GOOD THINGS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1165209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165209)]<br>We support digitally and socially excluded people to improve their lives through digital. Digital technology and community action is at the heart of everything we do. We bring together community partners to make up the online centres network, reaching deep into communities to help people across the UK gain the support and skills they need to change their lives and overcome social challenges. | £18,136,152
<strong>Frontline AIDS</strong> [Charity number: [1038860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038860)]<br>Frontline AIDS is the new name of the International HIV/AIDS Alliance. The charity is the UK-based secretariat of a global partnership of national organisations working to support community action on HIV and AIDS. National partners and local community groups are supported by technical expertise, policy work and fundraising carried out at the secretariat and across the global partnership. | £15,192,452
<strong>LOCALITY (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1036460](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1036460)]<br>Locality is the national network of ambitious and enterprising community-led organisations, working together to help neighbourhoods thrive. Our network is a strong, collective voice inspiring community action to create a fair and diverse society where local people determine their future together. | £7,515,000
<strong>THE PARK COMMUNITY CENTRE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140834](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140834)]<br>EDUCATIONAL COURSES, ACTIVITIES FOR LOCAL COMMUNITY | £6,377,303
<strong>KEEP WALES TIDY</strong> [Charity number: [1082058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082058)]<br>Keep Wales Tidy works for the improvement of local environments by 1. encouraging the public to act in a responsible manner; 2. supporting organisations that work for a cleaner and tidier local environment.3. promoting sustainable development, education and community action. | £5,751,633
<strong>Community Action Network</strong> [Charity number: [1081381](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081381)]<br>We provide professional and practical support to organisations working within the voluntary and community sector in Bournemouth, Christchurch, Poole and Dorset. We want to see these communities healthy, diverse, vibrant and flourishing. Our mission is to empower the voluntary sector, enable volunteering and involve communities. We believe that together, we CAN make a difference. | £5,144,909
<strong>JESUS HOUSE FOR ALL NATIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1088614](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088614)]<br>Worship Services.Advancement of the Christian religion worldwideThe relief of poverty worldwideLocal Community Projects including a community centre and community-focused events.Provision of grants to other charitable and voluntary organisations. | £4,893,559
<strong>GREEN LANE MASJID AND COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1125833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125833)]<br>Green Lane Masjid and Community Centre operates a mosque and an Islamic community centre on Green Lane, Small Heath in Birmingham. | £4,690,348
<strong>WORCESTERSHIRE YMCA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [516872](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-516872)]<br>Working from our own accommodation units, community centres, schools and prison, we provide a preschool nursery, management of children's centres, play workers in prison, schools work, youth work including the support of young people towards independent living, 'move on' accommodation and support for vulnerable adults. | £4,436,322
<strong>MERTHYR TYDFIL LEISURE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1160964](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160964)]<br>Operate Cultural and Leisure Venues in Merthyr Tydfil providing access to a range of cultural and active recreation opportunities to benefit the Health and Wellbeing of the Community of Merthyr Tydfil. The venues include Libraries, Park, Castle, Museum, Theatre and Arts Venue, Leisure Centres and Community Centres. In addition a range of events delivered via the venues. | £4,333,839


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE JOHN COLDMAN CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1050110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1050110)]<br>The Charity makes donations to educational and charitable organisations. In addition it operates the Holcot Residential Centre as a hostel, holiday centre and community centre for the use of young people and others. | £75,105
<strong>Golspie & District Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC011875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011875)]<br>The objects of the Association shall be:-  (a) To promote the benefit of the inhabitants of Golspie and District without distinction of political, religious or other opinions by associating the local statutory authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitant in a common effort to advance the education and in the interests of social welfare, to provide or to assist in the provision of facilities for recreation and other leisure-time occupation, so that the conditions of life of the aforementioned inhabitants may be improved. and (b) To establish or to secure the establishment, of a Community Centre and to maintain and manage such a Centre in co-operation with the Education Committee's policies for activities promoted by the Association and its constituent bodies in furtherance of the above objects. | £1,314
<strong>CROWNWAY COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1169056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169056)]<br>The overall aim of the Charity is to improve the quality of life and well-being of people living in the Earlestown area of Newton-le-Willows by providing focused community-based services and resources to meet the needs identified by the local people, also to provide social and recreational opportunities for local groups, organisations and individuals. | £84,780
<strong>MANCHESTER MACCABI COMMUNITY AND SPORTS CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [521228](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-521228)]<br>Community centre and sports club | £238,938
<strong>Millbrook Church Of The Nazarene</strong> [Charity number: [NI100312](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100312)]<br>Millbrook Church of the Nazarene meets every Sunday morning in Millbrook Community Centre. All who attend find a warm welcome from friendly people who will offer help, prayer, support and friendship. We are committed to supporting the local community many activities are focused around the community. Including the following community programmes: 'Drop-in' Millbrook drop-in is a safe place for young people 14-25 to hang out and have fun! Throughout the year, we bond over food, movie nights and games, while enjoying activities such as Go-Karting and trips to the cinema etc... We invest in the lives of our young people from Millbrook and the wider community, building them up to be confident in themselves and the love of Christ. 'Homegroups' Home groups provide the opportunity to meet outside the Sunday gathering. They meet on a fortnightly basis in homes during term-time. Home groups are made up of people who want to learn, grow, laugh and deepen their knowledge of God. While each home group is unique they are all founded on bible study, prayer and learning. You will be made to feel very welcome as we discover more about God together over coffee and a chat. You can listen, enjoy and learn or participate in the discussion. Either way its a great way to find out more about God, meet people, form and deepen friendships and find genuine support in life. | £45,442
<strong>BRACKENWOOD COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1182672](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182672)]<br>We run a community centre providing and facilitating activities for people of all ages from the local community. To bring about community cohesion, build friendships, alleviate loneliness and make our area a better place to live. | £64,177
<strong>Magdalene Community Education Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC007306](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007306)]<br>To advance education and to provide, or assist in the provision of, facilities for recreation or other leisure-time occupations, where such provision or assistance in provision - (i) is in the interest of Social Welfare, and (ii) is made with the object of improving the conditions of life of the members of the community in the area of benefit. and for those purposes to associate with the City of Edinburgh Council (hereinafter referred to as 'the Council') voluntary organisations and inhabitants in the area of benefit. b) To co-operate with the council and its successors in office in establishing, maintaining and managing any community centre situated in the area of benefit which is provided or grant-aided by the council in so far as it is established, maintained and managed for the attainment of obj ect (a) of the Association. | £48,904
<strong>Addni Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100298)]<br>Families with children with AD/HD are isolated & struggling to cope. Our tailored & bespoke programmes for child & parent address these issues in full. Empowering both to understand & actively manage situations proactively; fully complying with NICE 2013 guidelines for the treatment of AD/HD. Family support services for vulnerable families are enshrined within the Children Order & are viewed as being a valuable preventative service. In order to act as an arrester of further deterioration within the home situation & bring about a tangible improvement in home dynamics & the well-being of the child."AD/HD can have devastating consequences on all aspects of child development & a significant impact on the family as a whole". (ADHD White Paper, 2013). Our services are preventative & a form of early intervention, they are ego enhancing & self-esteem building; enabling children & young people to contribute more fully & integrate into the community to which they belong, thus reducing the social isolation these families often experience. Outcomes include enhanced resilience & greater coping skills, strategies & knowledge in young people; emphasised within the Bamford Report. Programmes bring about change by empowering parents & children to understand AD/HD & come together to learn necessary skills to tackle the challenges this brings.The benefit afforded by our work fulfils three areas: users experience a direct benefit by contacting ADD-NI, through us carrying out the purposes of our work. By attending our centres or within another community setting i.e. a school, community centre or Family Centre. Families & close members also gain by way of an indirect benefit, i.e. attending our 10 week PP this will have a cascading impact & effect within the household, which indirectly benefits the family unit. Wider benefit is gained which flows from ADD-NI's purposes toward the community at large, via increase in social integration & greater community cohesion. | £200,929
<strong>BIG LOCAL GATESHEAD</strong> [Charity number: [1200709](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200709)]<br>TO DEVELOP THE CAPACITY AND SKILLS OF THE MEMBERS OF THE SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITY OF TEAMS AND THE RACECOURSE ESTATE, GATESHEAD, AND THE SURROUNDING NEIGHBOURHOOD IN SUCH A WAY THAT THEY ARE BETTER ABLE TO IDENTIFY, AND HELP MEET, THEIR NEEDS AND TO PARTICIPATE MORE FULLY IN SOCIETYTO FURTHER OR BENEFIT THE RESIDENTS OF TEAMS AND THE RACECOURSE ESTATE, GATESHEAD AND THE NEIGHBOURHOOD, WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE OR OF POLITICAL, RELIGIOUS OR OTHER OPINIONS BY ASSOCIATING TOGETHER THE SAID RESIDENTS AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, VOLUNTARY AND OTHER ORGANISATIONS IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE RESIDENTS.IN FURTHERANCE OF THESE OBJECTS BUT NOT OTHERWISE, THE TRUSTEES SHALL HAVE POWER:TO ESTABLISH OR SECURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY CENTRE AND TO MAINTAIN OR MANAGE OR CO-OPERATE WITH ANY STATUTORY AUTHORITY IN THE MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF SUCH A CENTRE FOR ACTIVITIES PROMOTED BY THE CHARITY IN FURTHERANCE OF THE ABOVE OBJECTS. | 
<strong>MANCHESTER ROAD COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1128617](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128617)]<br>To provide meeting facilities for local groups and organisations ect. and provide an art studio for promoting the arts. | £13,067
