# Cemetery `FA101`

Cemetery is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

613 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.30% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((church|grave)+yard|cemeter(y|ies)|burial ground)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 377 | 0.53%
£10k - £100k | 158 | 0.23%
£100k - £250k | 25 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 14 | 0.13%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
£500k - £1m | 5 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.09%
Total | 588 | 0.31%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 569 | 0.33%
oscr | 37 | 0.15%
ccni | 7 | 0.10%
Total | 613 | 0.30%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL PARKS [LIMITED]</strong> [Charity number: [1172042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172042)]<br>We look after eight of London's largest open spaces; Hyde, The Green, Richmond, Greenwich, St James's, Bushy and The Regent's Parks, and Kensington Gardens. We also manage other important open spaces in the capital including Grosvenor Square Garden, Brompton Cemetery, Victoria Tower Gardens, Canning Green and Poet's Corner. | £109,911,000
<strong>INSPIRING HEALTHY LIFESTYLES</strong> [Charity number: [1105278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1105278)]<br>Advancement and support of education, culture, arts, heritage and history; provision or assistance in the provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupations and public cemeteries and crematoria;the promotion and preservation of good health through community participation in healthy recreation;any other charitable purposes as determined by the Trustees. | £10,246,593
<strong>GARDENS OF PEACE MUSLIM CEMETERY</strong> [Charity number: [1152922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152922)]<br>PROVISION OF BURIAL SERVICES TO THE MUSLIM COMMUNITY | £6,358,956
<strong>THE GARDEN MUSEUM</strong> [Charity number: [1088221](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088221)]<br>(i) The advancement of education in all aspects of the study and teaching of gardening and its history(ii) The maintainance of the churchyard of St Mary at Lambeth as a garden/open space for the benefit of the general public(iii) The care of the church of St Mary at Lambeth;  and to finance its use for charitable purposes for the benefit of the general public | £4,314,025
<strong>FRIENDS OF HIGHGATE CEMETERY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1058392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058392)]<br>The management of Highgate Cemetery:- to facilitate its use as a public burial ground- to give access to graveowners and others- to conserve its natural and built environment | £3,107,480
<strong>ST MARY'S COLLEGE OSCOTT CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1172979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172979)]<br>The charity operates the Roman Catholic Seminary of the Archdiocese of Birmingham at Oscott College, for the education of men in Holy Orders (Priesthood and Permanent Diaconate). The programme of study lasts up to 6 years. The CIO also maintains the College building and grounds and operates a Catholic Cemetery. Other lawful charitable activities for the propagation of the RC faith are undertaken. | £2,600,000
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF TEWKESBURY ABBEY WITH WALTON CARDIFF</strong> [Charity number: [1133813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133813)]<br>To promote the pastoral, evangelistic, social & ecumenical mission of the Church. Public worship is available & Christianity is taught through sermons,courses & small groups. The Abbey welcomes visitors: offering hospitality, a sacred space for prayer & contemplation. To aid the pastoral work of the Abbey and for the benefit of the community it is vital to maintain Abbey buildings & churchyard. | £1,408,605
<strong>THE WESTERN CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1147803](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147803)]<br>The main activities of the charity are running and maintenance of cemeteries at Cheshunt, Streatham, Edmonton and Fulham. | £1,198,834
<strong>Commonwealth War Graves Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC051982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051982)]<br>3.1 The objects of the CIO are for the public benefit: 3.1.1 to promote and support the maintenance and upkeep of graves, cemeteries, buildings and memorials for the burial and commemoration of members of the naval, military and armed forces from countries of the Commonwealth who were killed during the First World War or the Second World War anywhere in the world, in particular (but without limitation), through the support of charitable activities undertaken by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. 3.1.2 to advance citizenship among the people of the Commonwealth through the commemoration of members of the naval, military and armed forces from countries of the Commonwealth who were killed during the First World War and the Second World War. and 3.1.3 to advance the education of the public in the history of the First World War and the Second World War, in particular (but without limitation), through advancing education in the lives of those commemorated by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission and in the history of the cemeteries, buildings and memorials maintained by the Commonwealth War Graves Commission. | £1,067,538
<strong>ARNOS VALE CEMETERY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1120210](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120210)]<br>Arnos Vale Cemetery is a 45 acre cemetery with significant wildlife, architecture and heritage. The building restoration project is complete and we are now developing education services,a variety of cemetery services and visitor attraction facilities including guided tours, trails, a guidebook, museum with Books of Remembrance, venue hire, a shop and cafe. | £773,790


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ST MARY'S CHURCH YARD AND CHURCH FABRIC FUND</strong> [Charity number: [288536](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288536)]<br>Contributing to the cost of maintenance of the churchyard and church fabric of St Mary the Virgin, Buckland, Surrey | £4,035
<strong>ST MARGARET'S BABINGTON CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1038294](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038294)]<br>The Charity owns and manages a former Parish Church that stands within its own Churchyard. The main activity of the Charity is the generation of sufficient income from weddings and other services or events at St. Margaret's Church, Babington to maintain the property and grounds in a good state of repair. | £78,859
<strong>THUNDRIDGE OLD CHURCH ACTION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1202921](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202921)]<br>To conserve and maintain with public access the listed tower and graveyard of Thundridge Old Church and remove the current threat of demolition of this oldest and last visible reminder of 1,000 years of local occupation and worship. To research, bring to life and share the history of the church, medieval moated enclosure, surrounding River Rib valley and the remarkable people and events. | £1,593
<strong>The Boswell Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041655)]<br>(a) The advancement of literary arts and education through the promotion of the works of James Boswell. (b) The advancement of heritage through the restoration and preservation of the James Boswell family aisle and mausoleum in Auchinleck churchyard. | £160,358
<strong>JEWISH CEMETERY FRIENDS' ASSOCIATION KING'S LYNN</strong> [Charity number: [1216325](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1216325)]<br>(I) THE ADVANCEMENT OF HERITAGE. TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION OF THE HISTORIC GRADE II LISTED KING’S LYNN JEWISH BURIAL GROUND AND TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC ON ITS HISTORY, ARCHITECTURE AND ON JEWISH FAITH, TRADITION, CULTURE AND HERITAGE MORE GENERALLY.NOTHING IN THIS CONSTITUTION SHALL AUTHORISE AN APPLICATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE CIO FOR THE PURPOSES WHICH ARE NOT CHARITABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 7 OF THE CHARITIES AND TRUSTEE INVESTMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT 2005 AND SECTION 2 OF THE CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008. | 
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARGARET, DRAYTON, IN THE DIOCESE OF NORWICH</strong> [Charity number: [1210972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210972)]<br>St Margaret's Church Drayton is an Anglican Church in the Diocese of Norwich, Norfolk, providing a place of worship for religious activities, conducting religious ceremonies,  maintaining the attached public churchyard and generally advancing the religion by education and pastoral care in the parish | 
<strong>HIGHCLERE CEMETERY CHAPEL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1111136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111136)]<br>The charity holds the chapel on trust and organises fundraising events to pay for its maintenance.  It also holds an annual Christian service at which donations are collected and applied towards the chapel's maintenance and insurance. | £4,195
<strong>Ballynure and District Friendship Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI101824](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101824)]<br>The Friendship Club started in 2007, and meets at least once a month in Ballynure Presbyterian Church Minor Hall. There are over 50 members, most of whom are 65+, and at least 35% live alone. About one third of the members live more than 3 miles from the village. Members are encouraged to volunteer to help the group by providing food and hospitality at the meetings. The programme is arranged in consultation with the members speakers include broadcasters (Jackie Fullerton), health professionals, retired teachers, the Titanic Chaplain (Rev Chris Bennett), a retired teacher who was shipwrecked in Antarctica, overseas volunteers, potato growers, charity fund raisers inc people with interesting hobbies, historians, motor bike enthusiasts, chaplains, an airline pilot, PSNI Community Police, waste management consultants and a world champion orienteer. Successful courses on the use of computers and digital photography have been held. A number of members have attended programmes on Food Hygiene, First Aid, Risk Assessment and Event Management and have recently been trained in the use of the Village Defibrillator. Two members have been volunteers for the Police and Fire World Games held in Belfast in August 2013. One of these members has also helped with the Giro d’Italia in May 2014 and has just been enlisted to help the Mid-Antrim Museum’s WW1 initiative. Three to four outings are arranged each year. These outings are of great benefit to those who live alone and would never organise themselves or drive to the venues. The Friendship Club organised ‘Ulster in Bloom’ in the village. The Friendship Club is also actively involved in the GROW Village Renewal Scheme and is currently instrumental in erecting a Highway to Health Walk around the village with support from the NI Chest, Heart and Stroke Association. The group is also involved with the recently successful Green Flag application for the Old Graveyard in Ballynure and The Sensory Garden initiative. | £5,068
<strong>Berriedale Church and Cemetery Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC040737](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040737)]<br>The objects of the Association are to restore, preserve, repair, maintain, and improve Berriedale Church and its burial ground and to continue their community use for weddings, funerals, interments, and other appropriate purposes and to advance public education and appreciation on the history, culture and heritage of the surrounding area particularly but not exclusively by the display of illustrative and interpretative materials. | £9,494
<strong>THE UNDERCLIFFE CEMETERY CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [519751](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519751)]<br>For the public benefit to operate maintain and preserve and promote Undercliffe Cemetery for all or any of the following purposes:-1 The burial of the dead, including provision for ashes, 2. the provision of a community open space 3. The advancement of education 4 Preservation protection &amp; development of features of historic or educational interest including preservation of war graves &amp; memorials. | £76,057
