# Open spaces `FA105`

Open spaces is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Facilities](FA.md) category.

1,101 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.54% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((open|public) spaces?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 603 | 0.82%
£10k - £100k | 276 | 0.40%
£100k - £250k | 81 | 0.38%
£250k - £500k | 46 | 0.44%
£1m - £10m | 30 | 0.34%
£500k - £1m | 26 | 0.40%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.19%
Total | 1,066 | 0.56%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 954 | 0.56%
oscr | 134 | 0.54%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 1,101 | 0.54%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL PARKS [LIMITED]</strong> [Charity number: [1172042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172042)]<br>We look after eight of London's largest open spaces; Hyde, The Green, Richmond, Greenwich, St James's, Bushy and The Regent's Parks, and Kensington Gardens. We also manage other important open spaces in the capital including Grosvenor Square Garden, Brompton Cemetery, Victoria Tower Gardens, Canning Green and Poet's Corner. | £123,019,000
<strong>ALEXANDRA PARK AND PALACE</strong> [Charity number: [281991](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281991)]<br>The principal activity of Alexandra Park and Palace Charitable Trust is the maintenance as an open space and provision of the Park and Palace for the free use and recreation of the public forever as defined in the 1985 Act. | £24,386,000
<strong>THE LAND RESTORATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1138337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138337)]<br>The Land Trust manages public open spaces on behalf of and with local communities. We are a dynamic, commercially focussed organisation whose financial strength enables us to benefit both communities and businesses across the country by providing cost effective, sustainable and secure management solutions for green open spaces. | £17,686,000
<strong>Land Restoration Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043833)]<br>3 1 to promote the conservation, protection and Improvement of the physical and natural environment anywhere In the United Kingdom and Insofar as may be charitable according to the laws of England and Wales In other parts of the world, 3 2 to create, provide, Improve and/or maintain, and own open spaces, woodlands and forests for the benefit of the public to be used as areas of Informal recreation, play, sport or other leisure time activities and for any other purpose consistent With this object and for the benefit of the community anywhere In the United Kingdom, 3 3 to provide facilities In the Interest of social welfare for recreation and leisure time occupation With the object of  improving the conditions of life for those living or working anywhere In the United Kingdom, 3 4 to advance public education in environmental matters and other ways of better conserving, protecting and improving the physical and natural environment, 3 5 to promote sustainable development for the benefit of the public by the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources and the promotion of biological diversity, 3 6 to advance the education of the public In subjects relating to sustainable development and the protection, enhancement and rehabilitation of the environment, (Sustainable development means 'development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs' ) 3 7 to promote the voluntary sector for the benefit of the public by supporting local community based groups to maintain open spaces, woodlands and forests for the benefit of the public to be used as areas of Informal recreation, play or other leisure time activities and for any other purpose consistent with this object and for the benefit of the community anywhere In the United Kingdom MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED CONTACT CHARITY FOR FULL VERSION | £17,686,000
<strong>EPPING FOREST</strong> [Charity number: [232990](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232990)]<br>The purpose of the Charity is the preservation of Epping Forest in perpetuity by the City of London Corporation as the Conservators of Epping Forest, as an Open Space for the recreation and enjoyment of the public. | £9,418,892
<strong>Jobs and Business Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC023930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023930)]<br>To relieve and/or prevent poverty particularly among residents of the area served by Glasgow City Council ('the Operating Area'). To relieve unemployment particularly among residents of the Operating Area for the public benefit in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. To advance education particularly among residents of the Operating Area, including the provision of training in skills of all kinds (particularly such skills as will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment).To advance health particularly among residents of the Operating Area. To relieve those in need particularly within the Operating Area by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, alcohol or drugs dependency, or other disadvantage. To advance community development and regeneration particularly within the Operating Area through: assisting in the planning of changes to the housing and physical environment as part of a' wider strategy for relief of the problems of poverty. the promotion of trade and industry, for the benefit of the general public. the promotion of security, public safety, the prevention of crime and the reduction of the fear of crime, particularly among residents of the Operating Area . To advance citizenship particularly among residents of the Operating Area .To preserve, restore and improve the environment particularly within the Operating Area through the provision, maintenance or improvement of public parks , public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED CONTACT CHARITY FOR FURTHER DETAILS | £7,897,714
<strong>Green Action Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC015341](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015341)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are: to advance environmental repair, protection and improvement.  to advance citizenship and community development (including urban and rural regeneration, the promotion of volunteering and the voluntary sector and measures to maximise community involvement in the work of the organisation).  to advance education and training, particularly in relation to matters relating to the environment.  to advance health, and in particular through encouraging public access to open spaces, participation in open-air sports and recreational activities, and active travel.  to assist in relation to the provision of recreational facilities available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. and to further other similar charitable purposes for the benefit of the community.  through promoting, supporting and coordinating the delivery of, and where considered appropriate, directly delivering a range of initiatives and projects, across Scotland and elsewhere, directed towards restoring and transforming landscapes, promoting better land management practices, climate change mitigation and adaptation, and/or the provision of community facilities, with a view to creating an environment which is more balanced and able to thrive in a changing climate, contributes positively to climate change action, which supports healthy lifestyles and well-being, enhances nature and biodiversity and encourages sustainable inclusive economic growth. and to do all of the above in a manner which reflects principles of good practice as regards diversity and equality.   | £6,925,669
<strong>LAR Housing Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044825](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044825)]<br>The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage:  and (as ancillary to that purpose)  The advancement of community development.  through providing and assisting in the provision of housing for rent at affordable levels and (as ancillary to those primary activities) assisting (whether financially or otherwise) with the development or improvement of public open spaces, and/or other public amenities or facilities, to help to create sustainable and balanced communities in the areas where such afforable housing is located. | £5,985,000
<strong>The Gannochy Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC003133](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003133)]<br>2.	Trust Purposes The purposes of the Trust are:   2.1. 	Housing and lands 2.1.1 To preserve the amenities of Perth and provide housing to those in need by maintaining the model Gannochy Housing Scheme in a trim, tidy and proper condition and renewing, improving, or reconstructing it as the Trustees may deem fit.  2.1.2	To hold the farms (Muirhall, Gannochy and Whinniemuir), until such time as the Trustees think fit to use them, or part of them, for housing, recreation, open spaces, gardens or others, for the benefit of the people of Perth and Kinross.   2.1.3	To manage all houses and lands owned by the Trust in their absolute discretion as though they were beneficial owners, in furtherance of the Trust Purposes.  2.2.	Recreation and amenity  2.2.1	To maintain the Doo-cot Park and Pavilion in proper condition for recreational purposes and to provide instructors, groundsmen and other staff and tools as the Trustees think necessary.  2.2.2	To equip and maintain Quarrymill Park as a place of public amenity.  2.2.3	To lay out Lower Bellwood Park as a recreation park and garden for the benefit of the citizens of Perth.  2.2.4	To actively encourage use of the Trust’s land and buildings to improve the quality of life for people in Perth and Kinross.    | £5,832,554
<strong>Gardeners' Royal Benevolent Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC040180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040180)]<br>The objects of the Charity (the 'Objects') shall be:- 3.1.1 the relief and assistance by such means as the Trustees shall determine to be appropriate in each case of gardeners or persons who are or who have been in like employment or occupation of those closely involved in gardening or related activities or those training to be gardeners or persons of like occupation and their spouses or widows/widowers or unmarried partners and/or immediate dependants (the 'Beneficiaries') in necessitous circumstances or in circumstances of poverty, illness, disability (whether mental or physical) old age. and/or 3.1.2 the advancement for the public benefit of education and training in or relating to horticulture or gardening. and/or 3.1.3 the provision, maintenance or assistance in the provision and maintenance of gardens and open space for training, rehabilitation and other charitable purposes for public benefit and in particular the preservation and maintenance of gardens of historic and/or aesthetic importance to be enjoyed by and made available to the public at large. and/or 3.1.4 to further such other exclusively charitable purposes according to the law of England and Wales as the Trustees in their absolute discretion from time to time determine.  | £4,614,296


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE QUEEN ELIZABETH II FIELD FAIRWARP SPORTS FIELD</strong> [Charity number: [1140561](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140561)]<br>Provides open space for general public use and private hire. | £3,150
<strong>FRIENDS OF MOSS LODGE</strong> [Charity number: [1168934](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168934)]<br>(1) TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.(2) TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN THE CONSERVATION, PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT.(3) TO MANAGE AND MAINTAIN THE AREA KNOWN AS MOSS LODGE COMMUNITY GARDEN IN PARR, ST HELENS AS AN OPEN SPACE FOR COMMUNITY USE.(4) THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABLEMENT, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC CIRCUMSTANCES OR OTHER DISADVANTAGE BY SUPPORTING THEIR ACCESS TO ENVIRONMENTAL AND EDUCATIONAL SERVICES AND ACTIVITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | 
<strong>PLAS FFYNNON COMMUNITY FIELD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1083551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083551)]<br>We maintain a piece of ground as open space for the use and enjoyment by the public and for the conservation of wildlife, plants & trees. | 
<strong>Perth Festival Of The Arts Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC010226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010226)]<br>The purposes for which the Company is established shall be wholly and exclusively charitable 3.2 The Company's objects are restricted to those set out in this article 3.2 (subject to article 3.3) and, in particular the Company's objects are for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere and for the advancement of the arts: - 3.2.1 to promote and encourage the Arts, especially music, opera, dance, plays, dramas, cinema and the visual arts including painting and sculpture and for these purposes to organise, promote, manage and conduct festivals of music and drama with exhibitions and other entertainments in Perth or elsewhere, annually or at such other intervals as the Company may from time to time determine, such activities to be for the benefit of the local and general public. 3.2.2 to present, produce, manage and conduct at concert halls, theatres, cinemas and other premises and at open spaces, concerts, operas, dance, plays, dramas, recitals, cinematograph performances, exhibitions, conferences, lectures and other entertainments and presentations and to engage in any other activities which will promote and encourage the Arts, as the Company may from time to time think fit, such activities to be for the benefit of the local and general public. 3.2.3 to establish and promote local, regional, national and international exchanges of ideas and information in relation to the Arts, the dissemination of the useful products thereof and the establishment and maintenance of such local, regional, national and international links with other bodies, institutions and companies as may assist in the achievement of the foregoing. This will be effected by the promotion of education and especially appreciation and understanding of the Arts and advance public education in the Arts by performances, displays, exhibitions, lectures, demonstrations, in theatres, community centres, church halls and in any other suitable venue(s) as the Company may determine. | £318,028
<strong>EAST BUTTERWICK RECREATION GROUND</strong> [Charity number: [505944](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-505944)]<br>Provides buildings, facilities and open space for meetings, gatherings, social and sports events. | £1,668
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF LOWER WHARFE</strong> [Charity number: [1131909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131909)]<br>General Charitable Purposes. People with disabilities. Makes grants to organisations. Provides buildings/facilities/open spaces | £164,546
<strong>West Kilbride Community Initiative Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC028481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028481)]<br>4.1 To advance heritage through promoting the preservation (whether wholly or in part) of buildings and other structures of historic and/or architectural significance within the Community. 4.2 To provide recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the public at large within the Community. 4.3 To advance the arts and culture. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance environmental protection or improvement including through the creation or improvement of public parks, public streets, pavements and walkways (and adjoining landscaped areas) and other public open spaces within the Community for the benefit of the general public. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development within the Community. 4.7 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes which are in furtherance of charitable purposes for the benefit of the Community, but such that the company shall do so following principles of sustainable development.   2.10 'sustainable development' means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.  | £323,318
<strong>VILLAGE HOUSING CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [268886](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268886)]<br>Providing buildings/facilities/open space for potential/actual beneficiaries in necessitous circumstances who have a need to live in the villages of Lockinge and Ardington | £415,355
<strong>Forward Coupar Angus</strong> [Charity number: [SC042646](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042646)]<br>To promote the sustainable development of the area, incorporating the aims of social inclusion, economic prosperity and a pleasant and healthy environment. To promote effective democratic participation in decisions relating to the sustainable development of the area. To promote caring, supportive and constructive roles in the community, thereby preventing social isolation and discouraging anti-social behaviour.To encourage positive interaction between the generations.To provide within Coupar Angus recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. To provide education and training in pursuance of the company's objects. To advance environmental protection and improvement in Coupar Angus through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and regeneration projects (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefits so arising clearly outweigh any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners). To advance community development through the promotion of trade and industry within Coupar Angus for the benefit of the general public. | £901,695
<strong>WEASENHAM GREEN</strong> [Charity number: [244939](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-244939)]<br>RECREATION AND ENVIRONMENT FOR ELDERLY AND GENERAL PUBLIC AND PROVISION OF OPEN SPACE IN THE PARISHES OF WEASENHAM ST.PETER AND WEASENHAM ALL SAINTS. | £1,407
