# Chronic Fatigue Syndrome `HE204`

Chronic Fatigue Syndrome is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

25 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.01% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(chronic fatigue syndrome|cfs|Myalgic Encephalomyelitis)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 11 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 6 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 3 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 1 | 0.01%
£1m - £10m | 3 | 0.03%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 24 | 0.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 17 | 0.01%
oscr | 7 | 0.03%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 25 | 0.01%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ACTION FOR ME</strong> [Charity number: [1036419](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1036419)]<br>Action for M.E. was established for the relief of people suffering from the disease MyalgicEncephalomyelitis, (commonly known as M.E., or CFS/ME), and to provide information, advice and support, and to promote public education, campaigning and research into the disease. On a day to day basis we provide telephone support to people with M.E., manage Online M.E Centre and publish 'InterAction'. | £1,365,672
<strong>Action for M.E.</strong> [Charity number: [SC040452](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040452)]<br>The Company is established for the relief of persons suffering from the disease Myalgic Encephalomyelitis ('M.E.', which expression where used in this Memorandum of Association shall include chronic fatigue syndromes and other associated syndromes) and to provide information, advice and support and to promote public education and research into the disease (provided that the useful results of any such research are fully disseminated to the general public). | £1,365,672
<strong>THE MYALGIC ENCEPHALOPATHY ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [801279](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801279)]<br>To provide information and support for people with ME/CFS/PVFS | £1,118,304
<strong>ME Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC036942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036942)]<br>To advance scientific knowledge by commissioning or funding research into the causes, consequences and treatment of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) or any other related illnesses, and to publish or cause to be published the results of any such research. To advance public education and awareness of the causes, consequences and treatment of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) or any other related illnesses, and of the need for research into the condition, by producing printed or electronic information, funding or hosting scientific meetings, and acting as a key information resource for researchers, medical practitioners, healthcare professionals and the general public. | £877,131
<strong>SHEFFIELD M.E. GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1095416](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095416)]<br>To support people living with from ME/CFS and Long Covid through connection, advice and to raise awareness of the illnesses. | £192,269
<strong>THE CIRCLE BRIGHTON LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1146117](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146117)]<br>TO PROMOTE AND PROTECT THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF SUFFERERS OF, AND ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC IN ALL AREAS RELATING TO , MYALGIC ENCEPHALOMYELITIS (ME) , MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (MS) , DEPRESSION AND STRESS RELATED CONDITIONS IN ENGLAND AND WALES THROUGH THE PROVISION OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE , SUPPORT , EDUCATION AND PRACTICAL ADVICE. | £176,354
<strong>INVEST IN ME RESEARCH</strong> [Charity number: [1153730](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153730)]<br>IIMER PROMOTES BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH/EDUCATION/AWARENESS OF MYALGIC ENCEPHALOMYELITIS (ME). WE ORGANISE ANNUAL INTERNATIONAL ME CONFERENCES/RESEARCH COLLOQUIUMS; MARKET & PUBLISH EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL ON ME (DVDS, BROCHURES, GUIDELINES & JOURNALS); PUBLISH A FREE NEWSLETTER; INITIATED NATIONAL/INTERNATIONAL CAMPAIGNS FOR CROWDFUNDING/AWARENESS FOR ME; FUND BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH INTO ME. | £112,945
<strong>FRIENDS OF COBHAM FREE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1152171](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152171)]<br>The charity is engaged in activities or providing facilities or equipment which support Cobham Free School (CFS).  Activities include fundraising events such as summer fairs, Christmas fairs, movie nights and school discos held on school premises as well as events for parents and staff such as barn dances, race nights and summer balls held at various local venues. All funds raised are for to CFS. | £50,164
<strong>DORSET ME SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1201433](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201433)]<br>By providing a fully dedicated Self-Care Co-ordinator, who organises a range of gentle activitiesthat promote a healthy lifestyle. The Co-ordinator also provides practical guidance and support tomembers who face the challenge of managing, or recovering from ME/CFS.  Other support includes monthly meetings across Dorset, twice year newsletters, updates on latest research, helpful events. | £40,773
<strong>Dumfries & Galloway ME and Fibromyalgia Network [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC051578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051578)]<br>To support the needs of people in Dumfries & Galloway who suffer with Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME), Fibromyalgia (FM), Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) and Post-Viral Fatigue Syndrome (PVFS). | £35,820


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>M.E Support Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104006](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104006)]<br>ME Support NI is a Charity which provides information, support and practical advice for people (including children), families and carers affected by M.E (Myalgic Encephalomyelitis) and advocates on their behalf. We aim to improve the lives of children, young people and adults affected by this devastating neurological illness by lobbying for services such as a Consultant led Specialist M.E. Clinic supported by a Multi- Disciplinary team all of which are underpinned by expert knowledge of M.E. We strive to work with our Universities to ensure our Medical and Nursing student’s education and training incorporates the latest Bio- Medical research on ME. We are working to ensure our GP’s receive the appropriate training on ME in order to correctly diagnose ME using the Canadian Consensus Criteria, to support patients and advise on appropriate management. We aim to educate and advise Health Professionals, Educationalists and interested parties regarding the challenges of those suffering from M.E and raise awareness within N Ireland. How We run monthly support group meetings to provide clients with help, advice and emotional support. At our meetings we often have specialist speakers, speaking on various topics related to health, benefits advice, disability support and education. We also raise awareness of M. E. By participating in workshops, events in Schools, Disability Action Exhibition, Rare Disease Partnership to name but a few. We also continue to lobby the Government and the Department of Health and the Health Service Commission Board in N Ireland on behalf of those suffering with M.E. We provide literature and guidance to those interested in learning more about M.E. | £7,590
<strong>DORSET ME SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1201433](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201433)]<br>By providing a fully dedicated Self-Care Co-ordinator, who organises a range of gentle activitiesthat promote a healthy lifestyle. The Co-ordinator also provides practical guidance and support tomembers who face the challenge of managing, or recovering from ME/CFS.  Other support includes monthly meetings across Dorset, twice year newsletters, updates on latest research, helpful events. | £40,773
<strong>ME Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC036942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036942)]<br>To advance scientific knowledge by commissioning or funding research into the causes, consequences and treatment of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) or any other related illnesses, and to publish or cause to be published the results of any such research. To advance public education and awareness of the causes, consequences and treatment of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis/Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) or any other related illnesses, and of the need for research into the condition, by producing printed or electronic information, funding or hosting scientific meetings, and acting as a key information resource for researchers, medical practitioners, healthcare professionals and the general public. | £877,131
<strong>West Lothian Myalgic Encaphalomyelitis Self Help Group-Mesh</strong> [Charity number: [SC023544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023544)]<br>To advance the education of, and relieve the suffering and distress of those suffering from ME/CFS and their families/carers and other interested parties | 
<strong>WELSH ASSOCIATION OF ME & CFS SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1144534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144534)]<br>WAMES activities in Wales: campaign for recognition of ME as a neurological illnesscampaign for appropriate health, education, social care services, benefits and researchraise awareness of MEoffer support to young people with MEprovide information in Welsh and English for people with ME, their families & professionalsaid local support groups | £1,893
<strong>THEREFORME</strong> [Charity number: [1218590](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1218590)]<br>Publishing and promoting evidence-based information about Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME), related health &amp; social care policy, and lived experience of the conditionRaising awareness among the public, media, healthcare professionals &amp; decision-makersCampaigning for patient safety, biomedical research and improvements in the provision of health, education &amp; social care for people living with ME | 
<strong>THE OPTIMUM HEALTH CLINIC FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1131664](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131664)]<br>The role of our charity is to relieve sickness, poor health and disability and to promote optimal healing and physical wellbeing through the provision, study and research of integrative medicine, initially for sufferers of Myalgic Encephalomyelitis and Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (ME/CFS) and later for sufferers of other serious and chronic illnesses. | £959
<strong>25% M.E. Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC034265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034265)]<br>The main aims and objectives (purpose) of the Group shall be to promote the welfare of and advance the education of those suffering from the problems related to the severe effects of ME (Myalgic Encephalomyelitis), their families and cares by:  1  The Advancement of Health by:  (a)	raising awareness of M.E., it’s various causes, symptoms, effects and treatments. (b)	alleviating the isolation severe M.E. causes. (c)	encourage members to participate within the group. (d)	encouraged communication between members (telephone or letter  - regular up-dated copies of the members contact list ensures all members have equal access)   2. The Advancement of Education & Science  (a)  producing effective educational material of this illness for members, their family, friends and relatives. various health care professionals and the education of the general public. (b) Collating statistical data for and on behalf of health care professionals, voluntary and statutory agencies, specialist working groups and to appropriate medical research institutions. (c) Raising awareness within the medical profession and paramedical profession about the severe effects of M.E | £33,283
<strong>SOUTH EAST LONDON ME SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1093659](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093659)]<br>Run by user-volunteers, mainly ME/CFS sufferers, this charity aims to provide information, support and assistance to help fellow members understand, manage and recover from ME. We offer:- monthly meetings, quarterly newsletter, lending library, social events, therapeutic activities, informal support networks. | £6,090
<strong>MEAction UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC054003](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054003)]<br>2. Objects 2.1 The objects of the Charity are for the benefit of the public to: 2.1.1provide relief to those suffering from Myalgic Encephalomyelitis ('ME') (also known as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome ('CFS')) and other complex, chronic post infectious  illnesses, in particular but not exclusively by: (a) raising awareness and public understanding of ME and other complex, chronic illnesses (including post infectious illnesses) (b) providing information, advice and support. and (c) advancing research into ME and other complex, chronic illnesses (including post infectious illnesses), provided that the useful results of any such research are disseminated to the general public. 2.2 Nothing in this constitution shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for the purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008. | 
