# HIV / Aids `HE208`

HIV / Aids is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

361 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.18% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(h\.?i\.?v|human immunodeficiency virus|acquired immune deficiency|antiretroviral)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 140 | 0.17%
£10k - £100k | 114 | 0.18%
£100k - £250k | 39 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 18 | 0.20%
£500k - £1m | 19 | 0.34%
£1m - £10m | 20 | 0.26%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.35%
Total | 356 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 321 | 0.19%
oscr | 25 | 0.10%
ccni | 15 | 0.22%
Total | 361 | 0.18%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Lifeline Project (subject to insolvency proceedings)</strong> [Charity number: [SC045486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045486)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established (“the Objects”) are to relieve poverty, sickness and distress among those persons affected or who suffer from:   3.1.1 the addiction to drugs of any kind;  3.1.2 poor mental, emotional or physical health;  3.1.3 obesity and  3.1.4 sexually transmitted diseases including (without limitation) HIV and AIDS   3.2 to educate the public on matters relating to the prevention, effective management and treatment of drug misuse, poor mental emotional or physical health, obesity and sexually transmitted diseases, and   3.3 to support and assists individuals with their rehabilitation from offending with a view to preventing or reducing the risk of further crime.   | £61,812,600
<strong>UNITED PURPOSE</strong> [Charity number: [272465](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-272465)]<br>United Purpose's activities can be broadly summarised as follows:Partnership and local capacity strengthening;Emergency prevention, preparedness and response; Health, including HIV/AIDS prevention and care; Rights and equity; Water and sanitation;Sustainable livelihoods, including food security and micro-enterprise. | £19,772,222
<strong>THE ELTON JOHN AIDS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1017336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017336)]<br>The Foundation empowers people infected, affected and at risk of HIV/AIDS, to alleviate their physical, emotional and financial hardship, enabling them to improve their quality of life, live with dignity and exercise self determination. It funds broad ranges of services and operational research, focusing on the most disadvantaged and high risk groups both in the UK and around the world. | £19,082,899
<strong>Frontline AIDS</strong> [Charity number: [1038860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038860)]<br>Frontline AIDS is the new name of the International HIV/AIDS Alliance. The charity is the UK-based secretariat of a global partnership of national organisations working to support community action on HIV and AIDS. National partners and local community groups are supported by technical expertise, policy work and fundraising carried out at the secretariat and across the global partnership. | £18,882,138
<strong>The Terrence Higgins Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039986)]<br>The object of the Company is the promotion of better HIV, sexual and general health by education of the public, the provision of HIV and sexual health programmes and material, care and support services, clinical sevices, advice, information and advocacy. | £10,925,000
<strong>THE TERRENCE HIGGINS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [288527](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-288527)]<br>The promotion of better HIV, sexual and general health by education of the public, the provision of HIV and sexual health programmes and material, care and support services, clinical services, advice information and advocacy. | £10,925,000
<strong>Tr¾caire (Northern Ireland)</strong> [Charity number: [NI103321](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103321)]<br>Trócaire (Northern Ireland) works in over 20 countries throughout Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East. We deliver support through local partner organisations and churches, helping communities and families to free themselves from the oppression of poverty. In Northern Ireland, we raise awareness about the causes of poverty through our outreach programmes in the education sector, through parish networks, and through our public campaigns and advocacy work. We work across a number of programme areas both at home and overseas: • Ending poverty and hunger, through supporting families and communities to secure access to land, clean water and the resources needed to produce a healthy and nutritious diet; to sustainably increase and diversify agricultural production; to access new sources of income to combat malnutrition and increase food security. • Responding to humanitarian crises in countries where natural disaster or conflict has put people’s lives at risk. •Tackling HIV and AIDS through working to reduce vulnerability to HIV infection, and to reduce the impact of HIV and AIDS on poor and marginalised communities. • Promoting gender equality, helping women to achieve their basic rights, and to earn a living. Supporting those exposed to gender-based violence, and working to build women’s leadership and support their equal participation in decision-making at all levels. • Campaigning for justice, supporting the work of documenting human rights violations and challenging those responsible, and empowering marginalised and poor people, especially women, to participate in governance processes and demand accountability from their governments. | £7,066,152
<strong>THE METRO CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1070582](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070582)]<br>Metro works with anyone experiencing issues related to sexuality, identity, gender & Diversity.  We work in the fields of: Sexual & Reproductive health: Mental Health & Wellbeing: HIV Prevention & Support: Youth Services: Community Involvement & Participation. We provide support, advice, advocacy, information, counselling, group work, community development, research, clinical services & resources. | £5,499,845
<strong>CHILDREN'S HIV ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1122356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122356)]<br>The charity's current activities in furtherance of its objective include:1.Annual conference,autumn and regional meetings to disseminate latest updates on education and clinical practice in HIV and focus on important developments in standards of treatment and care 2.Website to include latest news,announcements and bulletin boards for healthcare professionals, children and youths living with HIV. | £4,894,163
<strong>Anglo American Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [1111719](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111719)]<br>The Foundation is committed to supporting development initiatives directed towards the global and local community. Specifically, the Foundation welcomes applications from charitable organisations associated with the following areas: education and training, community development, HIV/AIDS/welfare and environment. | £4,420,490


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ADDINGTON AFRO-ETHNIC HEALTH PROMOTION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1088025](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088025)]<br>Health  awareness workshops and support group  on HIV and STIs for affected individuals and their carersFinancial Hardship support via fundin Trusts.Support groups work with young carersHIV Prevention /STIs, conferences etc.Holiday and Breaks for client groupActivities for youth carers and  families affectedParenting workshopsIT and job trainingReferrals to mainstream TB awarenes | £31,030
<strong>LIONESS CUBS CHILDRENS HOME (MOMBASSA)</strong> [Charity number: [1143202](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143202)]<br>Fundraising in the UK with activities such as coffee mornings, lunches, fetes, etc donations, talks, Gift Aid, application to businesses/trusts so as to provide nurture, shelter, food, clothing, education, medical needs and recreation for the children of Lioness Cubs Home situated just outside of Mombasa, Kenya.  Many of the children are orphans, some have been abandoned, many suffer from HIV/Aids | £5,289
<strong>WIDOWS AND ORPHANS INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1177947](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177947)]<br>To promote the benefit of widows and orphans from Africa and others affected by HIV/aids without distinction of sexual, political, religious or other persuasions by working with local authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitants of the U K and abroad; To facilitate advancement in education through, training and lifelong learning, the development of individual capabilities, competencies, | £21,181
<strong>MBEDZA PROJECTS SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1162581](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162581)]<br>Mbedza Projects Support exists to benefit the people of Malawi. We work with communities and individuals to prevent and relieve poverty. Current projects include building stoves, a sanitary product for women, support for a youth centre providing HIV/AIDS education, testing and counselling, a Fire Festival which is a football competition providing HIV testing during the matches. | £82,472
<strong>Ombetja Yehinga Organisation (Scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC041769](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041769)]<br>(1) The advancement of education of the public, within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere, about HIV and AIDS, its transmission, prevention and consequences. (2) The advancement of education of the public, within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere, about social, economic  and cultural issues affecting the physical, mental and social well being of people. (3) The advancement of health within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere, through the prevention of sickness, disease and human suffering. (4) The advancement of citizenship within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere. (5) The advancement of the arts, heritage and culture within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere.  (6) The advancement of human rights within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere. (7) The promotion of equality and diversity within Scotland, the UK, Namibia and elsewhere. | £2
<strong>SAHIR HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1077327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077327)]<br>Provide information, support and guidance to people living with or affected by HIV, their family and friends. To provide information around HIV, STIs and sexual health to the wider population of Merseyside and Cheshire. | £529,339
<strong>ACTION FOR INGWAVUMA</strong> [Charity number: [1164898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164898)]<br>AFI supports an impoverished community in South Africa where 40% of the people are HIV positive. We fund community gardens, water tanks, boreholes, food supplements, new vehicles, orphans, key workers, a women's self-help group etc.  AFI workers in the UK are volunteers, all money raised goes directly to Ingwavuma. Trustees regularly visit Ingwavuma to ensure the money is correctly spent. | £27,668
<strong>BRITISH ASSOCIATION FOR SEXUAL HEALTH AND HIV</strong> [Charity number: [1148196](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148196)]<br>To promote, encourage and improve the study and practice of diagnosing, treating and managing sexually transmitted infections (STI), HIV and other sexual health problems. To champion and promote high quality standards in the multidisciplinary speciality of Genitourinary Medicine and in all individuals and all services providing STI, HIV and sexual health care. | £479,510
<strong>THEMBALITSHA UK</strong> [Charity number: [1122832](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122832)]<br>Health and social care provision predominantly for children infected by and affected by AIDS / HIV in Grabouw, Cape Town, South Africa, together with services for the community to address health, social and economic needs. | £18,537
<strong>Crew 2000 (scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021500](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021500)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are: (i) To advance the education of and further the health of members of the community with drug, alcohol, solvent or gambling problems and in furtherance thereof: To provide an advice, information, education and counselling service through an addiction and rehabilitation unit to people who are experiencing difficulties with their drug, alcohol, solvent use or gambling problems, and to their families and friends. To provide such a service in order to reduce drug, alcohol, solvent or gambling related harm and to provide rehabilitation through assessment, counselling, group work, education, day centres, therapeutic workshops, community handyman schemes and alternative leisure activities. To provide addiction resource, community health and social education facilities, and the education and training of other professionals in order to increase awareness in the community of the harm created by excessive use of drugs, alcohol, or solvents, and gambling. To educate drug users in order to reduce the spread of HIV and other related illnesses through the sharing of injection equipment and unprotected casual sexual relationships. To work closely with Consultant Psychiatrists (Addictions) to provide a prescribing facility for drug dependent members of the community. To encourage the recruitment and use of volunteers and to liaise with statutory and non-statutory organisations in order to network services. | £387,382
