# Addiction and dependency `HE201`

Addiction and dependency is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

1,092 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.54% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(addict(ion|ed)|alcohol(ism|ics?)?|substance (misuse|abuse(s|r|rs)?)|drug-free|drug (treatment|abuse|misuse)|overdoses?|methadone)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 233 | 0.33%
£10k - £100k | 282 | 0.40%
£100k - £250k | 147 | 0.66%
£250k - £500k | 132 | 1.19%
£500k - £1m | 73 | 1.05%
£1m - £10m | 122 | 1.33%
Over £10m | 30 | 1.33%
Total | 1,019 | 0.53%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 710 | 0.41%
oscr | 255 | 1.02%
ccni | 127 | 1.82%
Total | 1,092 | 0.54%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>Salvation Army Social Work Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037691)]<br>' in promoting the charitable work of the Salvation Army in such one or more of the following ways as the General for the time being of the Salvation Army shall think fit namely : (1) relief of poverty sickness suffering distress incapacity or old age. (2) advancement of education. (3) training in Christian and moral principles. and (4) assistance of those in need of protection' | £239,727,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £239,727,000
<strong>TURNING POINT</strong> [Charity number: [234887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234887)]<br>Turning Point provides health and social care services for people with a learning disability and also people at risk of, or with a mental health diagnosis, mental health issues, drug or alcohol use, misuse or dependency or other addictive behaviours. | £192,496,000
<strong>Waythrough</strong> [Charity number: [515755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515755)]<br>Waythrough was formed from the merger of  Humankind and Richmond Fellowship. We work with people with complex, multiple needs and disadvantages and are committed to multi disciplinary working within our own teams and with external agencies. Our main areas of work focus are substance misuse, mental health challenges, residential support, families and young people, training and employment. | £165,226,000
<strong>Richmond Fellowship Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC021621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021621)]<br>The objects of the Society are the relief of those who are vulnerable and in need of support, care, advice or other assistance due to reasons of their vulnerability. The Society will or may do this through: - The advancement of health and well being. - The advancement of education. - The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the objective of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. - The relief of those in need. This may be by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. - The prevention or relief of povert | £117,729,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [SC040009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040009)]<br>The relief of poverty and sickness among those persons generally who are dependent upon or affected by addiction to narcotic drugs and other similar substances or compounds of possible potential or suspected danger to the individual and the community (hereinafter referred to as drugs).  (ii)	The relief of poverty and sickness among parents of children affected by dependence upon or addiction to drugs and among families, any members of which are dependent upon or affected by addiction to drugs.  (iii)	The education and training of the individual and the community at large and advancement of education and training in and research into the danger arising from the habitual or other use of drugs together with publication of literature relating to dependence upon or addiction to drugs and of the results of any such research.  (iv)	The prevention of dependence upon or addiction to drugs, the consultation, treatment and care of those suffering from, and rehabilitation of those relieved from, dependence upon or addiction to drugs PROVIDED ALWAYS that any such treatment as aforesaid shall be carried out only under the supervision of a duly qualified medical practitioner under the National Health Service and wherever there occurs any reference in this Deed to treatment such treatment shall be construed as so limited. | £87,019,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [1001957](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001957)]<br>PROVIDES A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL MISUSERS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN COMMUNTY AND PRISON ENVIRONMENTS. FROM EDUCATION AND PREVENTION TO COMMUNITY SERVICES AND RESIDENTIAL REHABILIATION.WE ALSO SUPORT THE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH DIFFICULITIES | £87,019,000
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £74,790,071


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Working Rite</strong> [Charity number: [SC042604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042604)]<br>The company is established for charitable purposes only. The company's objects are to carry on activities which benefit the community through the advancement of citizenship and community development and/or which provide or assist in the provision of relief to those in need by reason of financial hardship or other disadvantage (or both), in particular (but without limitation) by:  (1) Encouraging civic values and increasing the efficiency of the voluntary sector by providing consultancy services to organisations which wish to provide work-based and other mentoring projects to disadvantaged groups within the community including (but without limitation) the following groups: -   (a) teenagers who are deemed to be at risk of social exclusion. (b) individuals suffering from drug addiction. (c) criminal offenders. (d) care leavers. and (e) other individuals who would have difficulty in accessing the mainstream jobs market.  (2) Assisting people who are at a disadvantage because of their social and economic circumstances by providing and facilitating the provision of training and employment opportunities (including the direct provision of mentoring projects) to individuals who would have difficulty in accessing work through the mainstream jobs market and doing so in an environment which maximises their prospects for sustaining themselves in employment through the provision of mentoring and other forms of support.   (3) Encouraging voluntary activity and helping organisations engaged in voluntary work by providing financial and/or other support to charities, local authorities, housing associations, local enterprise companies, local regeneration agencies and other organisations which aim to assist those working towards the same or similar charitable purposes for which the company operates. and   to promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions and in such proportions and manner as the directors shall think fit. | £1,352,230
<strong>KETTERING TEMPERANCE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [208856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-208856)]<br>To provide alcohol and drug education. To promote abstinence from alcohol and other drugs and promote healthy lifestyles. | 
<strong>Kinder Stronger Better</strong> [Charity number: [SC052045](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052045)]<br>4. The organisation's purposes are:  a. To provide support to LGBT+ individuals and families affected by alcohol and other addictions in Scotland  b. To promote, encourage and co-ordinate, and where appropriate develop and deliver, Support, outreach, groupwork, training and Volunteer development of those who wish to join the organsiation as a member, to develop knowledge and skills in a range of interventions in the alcohol and other addictions field.  In furtherance thereof, but not otherwise, the organisation shall seek to:  c. Co-operate with any recognised body concerned with the support and development of individuals who identify as LGBTQ+ and are in recovery from alcohol and other addictions.  d. Encourage good practice in the delivery of a range of interventions which includes alcohol and other addictions Training and groupwork. To promote high standards of practice and to represent the interests and views of member organisations in this regard.  e. Actively encourage members to recruit, select and train potential volunteers from their local communities.  f.    Seek to generate income through membership, grant funding, fundraising and where possible trade.  g. Use and apply its income in pursuit of its social mission and charitable purposes.  h. Generally take such steps as will promote the role and reputation of KSB LGBT. | 
<strong>Bathgate Street Pastors</strong> [Charity number: [SC049500](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049500)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the Christian Faith in accordance with the Licence Agreement executed with Ascension Trust (Scotland) and the Core Values and Mission Statement appearing in the Schedule hereto in Bathgate area  and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people on the streets and at various venues day and night. 4.2 To advance health, including the prevention and relief of sickness and human suffering, through the provision of goods or services of any kind including through the provision of counselling and support in the Bathgate area and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people, including those suffering from amongst other reasons excessive alcohol or substance use or misuse, on the streets and at various venues, day and night. 4.3 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by the provision of goods or services of any kind including through the provision of counselling and support in Bathgate area and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people on the streets and at various venues, day and night.  | £5,249
<strong>SOLDIERS OFF THE STREET</strong> [Charity number: [1137594](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137594)]<br>THE RELIEF OF CHARITABLE NEED OF HOMELESS EX-SERVICE PERSONNEL, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY THE PROVISION OF CLOTHING, FOOD AND REHABILITATION, INCLUDING ADVICE ON POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER, ALCOHOLISM, DRUG ABUSE, HOUSING AND EMPLOYMENT | £120,754
<strong>RIDDINGS ACTION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1113737](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113737)]<br>Relieving poverty, Advice and information service, welfare rights, community cafe, education and training, internet cafe, chair based exercises, craft groups, drug and alcohol support, recycled clothes and other goods. | £1,823
<strong>Black Swan</strong> [Charity number: [SC055320](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC055320)]<br>The organisation is established for the following charitable purposes, in accordance with section 7(2)   To advance employment and personal development, particularly (but not exclusively) for young people and adults who are unemployed, under-employed, socially excluded, or otherwise disadvantaged.  To advance citizenship and community development - by supporting individuals to develop life skills, confidence, resilience, and leadership, enabling fuller participation in society and equipping individuals to live positive, responsible, and constructive lives within their families and communities, through mentoring, vocational training, volunteering opportunities, and participation in community initiatives.  To advance employability by providing mentoring, coaching, enterprise education, skills development, and practical support to help individuals move into employment, self-employment, or further education.  To relieve poverty, injustice and financial hardship, particularly by supporting individuals who face barriers to economic participation through lack of opportunity, skills, experience, or confidence and by supporting individuals whose lives have been affected by addiction, homelessness, unemployment, injustice and social disadvantage, helping them to access accommodation, training, and support services.  To advance equality of opportunity, including by supporting those facing disadvantage due to social, economic, educational, or personal circumstances. | 
<strong>WYMONDHAM YOUTH BUS</strong> [Charity number: [1156941](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156941)]<br>The charity is a Christian organisation. We aim to provide a safe place for Wymondham young people aged 13-18 to gather. Through relationship, guiding and signposting we seek to provide advice on; Drug/alcohol awareness, antisocial behaviour, anger management, sexual health, low self esteem, anxiety-exams/bullying/self harming, eating disorders, family breakdown, bereavement, employment & finance. | £4,400
<strong>THE O'CONNOR GATEWAY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1107156](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107156)]<br>The company's objectives are the advancement of education and training of individuals who have undergone drug and or alcohol rehabilitation in order to enable them to more fully participate in society. | £370,583
<strong>Newbuildings Community and Environmental Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI101374](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101374)]<br>The group strives to improve education levels by running courses eg Adult Learning. The issue of social isolation is addressed by various groups eg Womans Group, Gardening project, Luncheon Club, Parent & Toddlers. To improve the health & well-being the community group provides classes and event eg Pilates, Yoga, Gym, Healthy Eating, Alcohol Awareness & Health Care Events. The group provides a weekly citizen advice session and general job finding assistance by providing support for CVs and job searching. The Community can attend the centre to make contact with local health care professionals. The centre has available a large sports hall, gym, 4G football pitch, as well as a number of rooms for other activities. The hall is used for sports, youth club and other community events. The gym is widely used & the 4G pitch is used every day. The community group regularly review the services they have available and continually seek new opportunities to help their community. | £193,626
