# Health condition `HE200`

Health condition is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

1,203 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.59% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(disease|syndromes?|genetic condition|health condition|medical condition)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`prevent disease|poverty`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 369 | 0.52%
£10k - £100k | 355 | 0.51%
£100k - £250k | 109 | 0.49%
£250k - £500k | 97 | 0.89%
£500k - £1m | 49 | 0.73%
£1m - £10m | 101 | 1.12%
Over £10m | 44 | 2.00%
Total | 1,124 | 0.58%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 922 | 0.54%
oscr | 240 | 0.97%
ccni | 41 | 0.57%
Total | 1,203 | 0.59%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £398,900,000
<strong>The British Red Cross Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC037738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037738)]<br>To provide assistance to victims of armed conflicts.  To work for the improvement of health for the prevention of disease and for the prevention and alleviation of human suffering in the British Islands and throughout the world. | £287,100,000
<strong>THE FRANCIS CRICK INSTITUTE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140062)]<br>The Francis Crick Institute is dedicated to understanding the fundamental biology underlying health and disease. Our work is helping to understand why disease develops and to translate discoveries into new ways to prevent, diagnose and treat illnesses such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, infections and neurodegenerative diseases. | £231,227,374
<strong>Marie Curie</strong> [Charity number: [SC038731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038731)]<br>The Charity is established as a memorial to the late Marie Curie in lasting tribute to her life’s work, and in particular to her discovery of radium and its contribution in fighting the disease of cancer. The charity exists to serve all those with a terminal diagnosis, from cancer or other causes, their families and carers. The objects for which the charity is established for the public benefit are:  2.1.1 to provide and develop caring services, offering support, care and compassion through palliative care, advice and assistance for the benefit of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers.  2.1.2 to undertake and fund research into any aspect of the care and support of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers. and  2.1.3 to provide information, education and support to patients, their families, carers, those working in medical and other caring fields and the public regarding the care of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses. | £181,101,000
<strong>Our Future Health</strong> [Charity number: [SC050917](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050917)]<br>The Charity's objects are restricted specifically only for the public benefit to preserve and advance human health and advance education in particular by engaging in, encouraging and supporting:  2.1.1 investigations into the separate and combined effects of genetic, environmental (including lifestyle, physiological and environmental exposures) and other factors on human health and welfare and on the risk, early detection and causation of diseases in the human population.  2.1.2 the establishment, holding, operation, management, promotion, support, expansion, improvement and safeguarding of a collection of biomedical, biochemical, epidemiological, genetic and other data and blood and other biological and biochemical samples obtained and developed through, for the purpose of and/or in connection with some or all of the investigations referred to in article 2.1.1 and pertaining to a cohort of human participants, for use in a research, knowledge and information resource.  2.1.3 the discovery, invention, improvement, development and application of treatments, cures, diagnostics and other medicinal agents, methods and processes that may in any way relieve illness, disease, disability or disorders of whatever nature in humans.  2.1.4 research into biological and medical sciences and other disciplines which may contribute to the improvement of human health and welfare ('Biosciences'). and   2.1.5 the study and understanding of any of the Biosciences. | £97,922,773
<strong>MEDECINS SANS FRONTIERES (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1026588](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026588)]<br>To relieve and promote the relief of sickness and to provide medical aid to the injured and to protect and preserve good health by the provision of medical supplies, personnel and procedures calculated to overcome disease, injury or malnutrition in any part of the world in accordance with the principles espoused by the International Council of Medecins Sans Frontieres in October 1990. | £95,336,332
<strong>UK Biobank Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039230](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039230)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to protect, preserve and advance all or any aspects of the health and welfare of human beings and to advance and promote knowledge and education by engaging in, encouraging and supporting: (i) investigations into the separate and combined effects of genetic, environmental (including lifestyle, physiological and environmental exposures) and other factors on human health and welfare and on the risk and causation of diseases in the human population. (ii) the establishment, holding, operation, management, promotion, support, expansion, improvement and safeguarding of a collection of biomedical, biochemical, epidemiological, genetic and other data and blood and other biological and biochemical samples obtained and developed through, for the purpose of andlor in connection with some or all of the investigations referred to in paragraph (i) and pertaining to a cohort of human Participants ('Data and Samples'), for use in a research, knowledge and information resource provisionally known as the UK Biobank ('the Resource'). (iii) research into biological and medical sciences and other disciplines which may contribute to the improvement of human health and welfare ('the Biosciences'). (iv) the discovery, invention, improvement, development and application of treatments, cures, diagnostics and other medicinal agents, methods and processes that may in any way relieve illness, disease, disability or disorders of whatever nature in human beings. and (v) the study and understanding of any of the Biosciences. | £76,327,574
<strong>Christian Aid</strong> [Charity number: [SC039150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039150)]<br>The furtherance of charitable purposes which relieve and combat poverty, malnutrition, hunger, disease, sickness or distress throughout the world. The furtherance of charitable purposes which advance or assist such other charitable work as may be carried on by or with the support of the Sponsoring Churches and in this clause and throughout the Articles, 'charitable' means charitable in accordance with the law of England and Wales provided that it will not include any purpose which is not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £71,100,000
<strong>Anthony Nolan</strong> [Charity number: [SC038827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038827)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are: 2.1 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those with blood cancers or other blood disorders or affected by an immunological deficiency and any similar or related diseases or conditions (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.2 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those who require a stem cell transplant or who are affected by any disease or condition that may be relieved, treated or cured by any organ or stem cell transplant (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.3 the advancement of research into the causes of and the diagnosis, relief, treatment or cure of those requiring a stem cell transplant or who are affected by an immunological deficiency or any similar or related diseases or conditions and to publish the useful results of such research. and  2.4 the advancement of research into improving organ or stem cell transplantation or any related technique or technology and to publish the useful results of such research.  | £70,788,000
<strong>Alzheimer's Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC042474](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042474)]<br>3.1 The Objects of the Charity are: (a) to preserve and protect the health of the public by promoting or assisting the promotion of research into the causal mechanisms of neuro-degenerative diseases with the aim of treating or preventing Alzheimer's Disease, dementia and other conditions having a similar or related cause and to disseminate the results of such research . and (b) to advance the education of the public into the symptoms, causes and treatment of dementia and other conditions having a similar or related cause. | £61,949,957


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HARROGATE AND RIPON BEEKEEPERS' ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [502757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-502757)]<br>Education of beekeepers, the public and interested parties in honey bee health and management.Disease control in honey bees | £20,770
<strong>THE BRITISH KIDNEY PATIENT ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [270288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270288)]<br>To improve quality of life for those affected by kidney disease by: giving financial support to kidney patients in need; making grants to renal units to improve care by funding staff posts, capital works and equipment/projects; providing advice, information, support and services; campaigning to inform policy and practice at all levels; and supporting multi-professional, patient-centred research. | £4,123,556
<strong>Feline Network Cat Rescue</strong> [Charity number: [1157756](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1157756)]<br>A not-for-profit cat rescue group run by volunteers.  We rescue and, if possible, re-home ill-treated and unwanted domestic and feral cats and kittens, and those who are elderly, with special needs and FIV+. We are a "no kill" organisation and if a cat is unhomeable due to age, temperament or health condition we keep that cat in care for the duration of its life. | £61,916
<strong>Clarisen Research</strong> [Charity number: [1210895](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210895)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE CIO IS:TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC AND INDIVIDUALS AFFECTED BY METABOLIC DISORDERS, INCLUDING THOSE WITH MAST CELL ACTIVATION SYNDROME, AUTISM, DIABETES, AND PEDIATRIC ACUTE-ONSET NEUROPSYCHIATRIC SYNDROME, IN THE SUBJECT OF NUTRITIONAL DEFICIENCIES AND ASSOCIATED CONDITIONS. THIS WILL BE ACHIEVED THROUGH CONDUCTING RESEARCH AND ADDING TO COLLECTIVE KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF SPECIFIC AREAS OF STUDY AND EXPERTISE, SUCH AS THE INTERPLAY BETWEEN NUTRITION, THYROID HEALTH, GUT MICROBIOME, AND VARIOUS METABOLIC DISORDERS, TO IMPROVE UNDERSTANDING AND MANAGEMENT OF THESE HEALTH CONDITIONS, AND PUBLISHING THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH RESEARCH FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT. | 
<strong>PANS/PANDAS UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC053206](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053206)]<br>The charity's main mission concerns the medical conditions PANS (Paediatric Acute-Onset Neuropsychiatric Syndrome) and PANDAS (Paediatric Autoimmune Neuropsychiatric Disorder Associated with Streptococcal Infections).  In particular, the objects are:  A. The provision of practical support, information and advice to the sufferers (and families) of PANS and PANDAS.  B. To advance the education of the general public in all areas relating to PANS and PANDAS.  C. To advance the education and improve understanding amongst health, social work and education professionals in all areas relating to PANS and PANDAS.   D. To accelerate and support UK led research into PANS and PANDAS and their impact on the people affected by them. | £159,413
<strong>Friends Of Chalmers Hospital</strong> [Charity number: [SC018411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018411)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are the advancement of health, the prevention and relief of sickness, disease and human suffering and the saving of lives by means of: The enablement of 'First Responders' to attend and administer pre-ambulance care interventions, in accordance with Scottish Ambulance Service training, for the benefit of the whole community in Banff, Macduff and environs and in such wider area as the board may from time to time determine. The provision of transport for patients to and from hospitals and other medical and nursing establishments in Aberdeenshire and Moray, in cases of need, as the board may from time to time determine. The advancement and provision of training and support of the public in first aid and general health and life support skills as the board may from time to time determine. The provision and maintenance of community access defibrillators and other health and life saving equipment in Banff, Macduff and environs and in such wider area as the board may from time to time determine. The promotion, provision and assistance of anything designed to improve the standard and quality of care or environment of patients of Chalmers Hospital, Banff, in supplement of the services provided by NHS Grampian. The creation, encouragement, fostering and maintenance of the interest of the public in providing a link between said Chalmers Hospital and the community which it serves.  | £9,643
<strong>CORPAL</strong> [Charity number: [1086019](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086019)]<br>To offer support to families affected by Agenesis of the Corpus Callosum.  To raise awareness of the conditions ACC and Aicardi Syndrome with families, health and other professionals and interested individuals.  To create a network of volunteer/parent carer contacts. Each year we hold an event where families affected by the condition can get together. Please check our website for more information. | £13,801
<strong>GORLIN SYNDROME GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1197282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197282)]<br>1. The relief of sickness and the protection and preservation of the health of persons affected by Gorlin syndrome and any related condition, their families and carers2. The advancement of the education of the medical professional and the general public3. The promotion of research into the causes, effects, treatment and management of Gorlin syndrome and to disseminate any useful results | £7,455
<strong>The Jess Thompson Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC052763](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052763)]<br>I direct the Trustees to hold the remainder of my estate after payment of legacies noted above for such charitable institutions whose function is to assist in the treatment or to act in the research associated with kidney disease, whichever will provide the greatest benefit for those suffering as my Trustees in their sole discretion think fit. Declaring that my Trustees shall have absolute discretion in regard to payment of such legacy, whether of interest or of capital and that it is my particular wish that some must be used for the treatment of kidney associated diseases, for example supplying kidney machines at home for individuals. The receipt of any authorised official of the time being for such organisation shall be sufficient to discharge my Trustees. | £1,816,316
<strong>THE EQUATOR TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1100870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100870)]<br>The Equator Trust is a charity (not a trust fund) operating from the UK which, through fund raising, is dedicated to relieving generally or individually persons who are in conditions of need, hardship or distress (including the relief of those who are sick and or suffering from disease). To advance the education of the public by such charitable means as the trustees see fit. | 
