# Cerebral palsy `HE203`

Cerebral palsy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

83 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.04% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cerebral(-| )?palsy)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 33 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 22 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 6 | 0.03%
£250k - £500k | 7 | 0.08%
£500k - £1m | 6 | 0.11%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.10%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.06%
Total | 83 | 0.04%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 71 | 0.04%
oscr | 9 | 0.04%
ccni | 3 | 0.04%
Total | 83 | 0.04%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Capability Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011330](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011330)]<br>To continue in Scotland the work which has hitherto been undertaken by the unincorporated body known as the Scottish Council for the Care of Spastic Children and those suffering from Allied Conditions, commonly known as the Scottish Council for the Care of Spastics and in pursuance thereof to promote, initiate, plan or assist schemes or activities directed towards the well being of persons suffering from Cerebral Palsy and Allied Conditions andlor from any other illness, disease or accident causing physical handicap or disablement whether or not accompanied by mental handicap or sensory loss; and for these purposes to co-operate with other Companies or unincorporated bodies with objects similar to those of Capability Scotland and to enter into arrangements with Voluntary Associations, Government Departments and public bodies | £24,724,322
<strong>STOCKPORT, EAST CHESHIRE, HIGH PEAK, URMSTON & DISTRICT CEREBRAL PALSY SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1009768](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1009768)]<br>The charity supports children and adults who have physical and/or learning disabilities with priority being given to those with the most severe disabilities. | £3,757,680
<strong>Scottish Centre For Children With Motor Impairments</strong> [Charity number: [SC008428](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008428)]<br>2.1.2 Subject to the overriding qualification set out in Article 2.1.1, the objects for which the Company is established are the advancement of education, the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by the provision of services in Scotland associated with the education, therapy, care, support of children and young people affected by a congenital or acquired neurological condition such as cerebral palsy and related conditions, brain injury or developmental dyspraxias (frequently described as motor impairments or motor learning disorders), and referred to in these Articles as 'children and young people affected by cerebral palsy and related conditions' using progressive educational and therapeutic methods including Conductive Education. This purpose includes the provision of education, information, support, advice and assistance as appropriate to the families of children and young people affected by cerebral palsy and related conditions. Further, the objects for which the Company is established include engagement with other providers of education (including further and higher education), therapy, care and support of children and young people affected by cerebral palsy and related conditions and their families, to provide advice and assistance and to assist in the education of undergraduate and postgraduate students and others who work, or who may work with children and young people affected by cerebral palsy and related conditions. | £2,149,626
<strong>LINCOLNSHIRE HOUSE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [700717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700717)]<br>Lincolnshire House (LHA) provides high quality 24 hour care to 37 people with cerebral palsy and with a broad range of complex needs. The  Activities Centre provides a wide range of educational and social activities to both residents and day attenders. To meet the increasing demand for our quality services LHA is to build further units to enhance the activities facilities. | £1,859,558
<strong>Cerebral Palsy Cymru</strong> [Charity number: [1010183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010183)]<br>Provision of specialist therapy to children resident in Wales who have cerebral palsy. | £1,746,191
<strong>ENHANCEABLE</strong> [Charity number: [1053246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053246)]<br>Provision of care, support, education and training services for people with cerebral palsy or another disability | £1,670,628
<strong>The Martin Residential Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101830)]<br>The Martin Residential Trust provides 24 hour nursing care and support to people with profound and in many cases multiple physical disabilities. We are experienced in supporting people who have conditions such as epilepsy, Alzheimer’s disease, autistic spectrum disorder, Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy, dysphasia and musculoskeletal disorders. Within the Martin Residential Trust, we are able to provide a safe, supportive and caring environment for vulnerable people. There is always a qualified nurse on duty and we provide a high level of staffing in order that we can appropriately support people who have complex needs. We have suitable facilities to assist people who have physical disabilities, including overhead hoists and accessible transport. We also support people to take part in a full activity programme that is suited to their individual needs. Activities can range from arts and crafts, cookery, sensory activities, hydrotherapy sessions and physiotherapy and the person’s activity plan is suited to their assessed individual needs. Our wide range of facilities and our breadth of experience mean that we are able to be very responsive to changes in a person’s needs or health. | £1,375,742
<strong>Norfolk and Norwich SEND Association</strong> [Charity number: [1027466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1027466)]<br>NANSA offers information, services and support for Norfolk people with cerebral palsy and other disabilities.  Our services are based at NANSA Centre (teenagers and adults with learning /physical disabilities/complex additional needs) and NANSA Family Centre (children aged 0 to 10 with learning/physical disabilities/complex additional needs). NANSA also offers a range of family support services. | £1,360,267
<strong>THE BOBATH CENTRE FOR CHILDREN WITH CEREBRAL PALSY</strong> [Charity number: [229663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-229663)]<br>We provide a treatment service delivering specialist Bobath Therapy to aid those with cerebral palsy. We also provide training in the Bobath Concept to therapists, doctors and others working with clients who have cerebral palsy and advanced courses for Bobath qualified therapists. | £1,079,671
<strong>TEESSIDE ABILITY SUPPORT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [508551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508551)]<br>The charity provides personal care and life skills learning opportunities to adults with cerebral palsy and associated disabilities in a Day Centre setting | £911,030


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CPISRA (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC049934](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049934)]<br>The Association's aims and purposes are to promote to persons with coordination and other impairments associated with cerebral palsy, traumatic and non- traumatic brain injury and related neurological conditions, the value and benefits to be gained through participation in sports and recreation. Including facilitation and delivery of sports and recreation opportunities and where applicable, from time to time those with other disabilities who may wish to access a particular sport and/or event endorsed by the Association. | £119,490
<strong>ACTION CEREBRAL PALSY</strong> [Charity number: [1165217](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165217)]<br>Action Cerebral Palsy is a UK charity which works with a range of stakeholders to improve outcomes for children and young people with cerebral palsies and their families. | £49,752
<strong>THE GENERATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [286964](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286964)]<br>Medical and genetic research for the prevention and treatment of cerebral palsy and other conditions having genetic origins. | £15,201
<strong>CEREBRAL PALSY NORTHAMPTONSHIRE</strong> [Charity number: [225710](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225710)]<br>The association is established for charitable objectives and purposes only and for the care, welfare, interest, treatment, education and advancement of persons with any form of Cerebral Palsy or with a related disability, their families and carers (hereinafter referred to as the 'clients'). | £2,128
<strong>The Martin Residential Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101830)]<br>The Martin Residential Trust provides 24 hour nursing care and support to people with profound and in many cases multiple physical disabilities. We are experienced in supporting people who have conditions such as epilepsy, Alzheimer’s disease, autistic spectrum disorder, Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy, dysphasia and musculoskeletal disorders. Within the Martin Residential Trust, we are able to provide a safe, supportive and caring environment for vulnerable people. There is always a qualified nurse on duty and we provide a high level of staffing in order that we can appropriately support people who have complex needs. We have suitable facilities to assist people who have physical disabilities, including overhead hoists and accessible transport. We also support people to take part in a full activity programme that is suited to their individual needs. Activities can range from arts and crafts, cookery, sensory activities, hydrotherapy sessions and physiotherapy and the person’s activity plan is suited to their assessed individual needs. Our wide range of facilities and our breadth of experience mean that we are able to be very responsive to changes in a person’s needs or health. | £1,375,742
<strong>Cerebral Palsy Cymru</strong> [Charity number: [1010183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010183)]<br>Provision of specialist therapy to children resident in Wales who have cerebral palsy. | £1,746,191
<strong>TEESSIDE ABILITY SUPPORT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [508551](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508551)]<br>The charity provides personal care and life skills learning opportunities to adults with cerebral palsy and associated disabilities in a Day Centre setting | £911,030
<strong>SCOPE IN COLCHESTER AND TENDRING</strong> [Charity number: [1051946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051946)]<br>The Charity exists to support and help people with cerebral palsy, or similar disability, and their carers. Its present main activity is the Castlegate Centre. The Centre also serves as a venue for other activities organised for the benefit of people with disability and their carers. | £152,269
<strong>THE INTERNATIONAL CEREBRAL PALSY SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [273102](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273102)]<br>A self help group assisting countries developing their services appropriate to local needs for people with cerebral palsy. ICPS also acts as a resource centre providing information on CP to anybody worldwide with an interest.For this reason I am unable to fill in the next part of the form about where we work because I have no idea from where in the world we might next receive a request! | £9,980
<strong>SUPPORT4SDR WALES</strong> [Charity number: [1155148](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155148)]<br>Support4SDR Wales aims to promote and protect the physical and mental health of people who have Cerebral Palsy and live in Wales, pre or post Selective Dorsal Rhizotomy surgery.(i) provide support, education & practical advice(ii) assisting in  provision of services not normally provided by statutory authorities(iii) advancing the education of professionals, officials & the general public | £215
