# Hearing loss `HE207`

Hearing loss is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

570 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(deaf(ness)?|sensory (disabilit(y|ies)|impairments?)|sign language|BSL|deafblind|(hearing) (care|clinics?|health|problems?)+|(hearing) impair(ed|ment))\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b(lions club)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 190 | 0.27%
£10k - £100k | 150 | 0.21%
£100k - £250k | 64 | 0.29%
£250k - £500k | 42 | 0.38%
£500k - £1m | 36 | 0.52%
£1m - £10m | 44 | 0.48%
Over £10m | 19 | 0.84%
Total | 545 | 0.28%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 454 | 0.26%
oscr | 87 | 0.35%
ccni | 29 | 0.41%
Total | 570 | 0.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SENSE, THE NATIONAL DEAFBLIND AND RUBELLA ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [289868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289868)]<br>Sense exists so that no one who is deafblind or has other complex disabilities is isolated, left out, or unable to fulfil their potential. Across the country, we support children and adults to communicate and experience the world. We provide information and advice, offer a wide range of flexible services and campaign for the rights of people with complex disabilities to take part in life. | £101,863,000
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £81,837,000
<strong>The National Deaf Children's Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC040779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040779)]<br>The Charity's objects are to further the education of and to relieve the needs of deaf children and young people.  | £33,568,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL DEAF CHILDREN'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1016532](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016532)]<br>NDCS is the national charity dedicated to creating a world without barriers for deaf children and young people We represent the interests and campaign for the rights of all deaf children and young people from birth until they reach independence. NDCS supports the deaf child through the family as well as directly supporting deaf children and young people themselves. | £33,568,000
<strong>The Presbyterian Church in Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104483)]<br>Comment on matters of public importance from a Biblical perspective, issue statements on church policy relevant to the public domain. Maintain relationships with local, regional and national government, make representations and respond to consultations on relevant issues. Develop relationships with other Church bodies, charities, secular organisations and civic society. Monitor inter-church bodies of which the Presbyterian Church in Ireland is a member. Provide nominations to education and other state bodies where the Church is a stakeholder. Select, train and develop full and part-time ministers, offer pastoral care to them and their families. Select, train and support deaconesses and oversee their deployment. Maintain and manage Union Theological College, a third-level institution and a recognised College of Queen’s University, Belfast. Provide a conciliation service for church members. Resource presbyteries and congregations in worship; discipleship, nurture & teaching, pastoral care, world mission; and evangelism, outreach and good relations in the community and workplace. Enable the development of ministry among: youth and children; women; young adults; families. Provide marriage and counselling services. Provide support for local congregations in finance, health & safety and personnel issues. Develop strategic priorities in all-age mission in Ireland. Enable new church development and church planting. Support chaplaincy services in the Forces, Healthcare, Prisons, Universities and Colleges. Undertake overseas mission, develop partnerships with overseas Churches, send personnel overseas. Promote world development issues and facilitate thinking on issues of global concern. Deliver a social witness service to the wider community in partnership with appropriate organisations. Undertake policy development and administration of the Taking Care programme for the protection of children and vulnerable adults. Support a ministry to those with hearing impairment. | £31,881,960
<strong>Sense Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022097)]<br>Objects of the Company 1.	The objects for which the Company is established are to provide support and relief to children, young people and adults who have communication support needs arising from a range of disabilities, including, but not limited to, deafblindness. autism. cerebral palsy. sensory impairment. learning or physical disability, often against a backdrop of complex health needs,  and to provide help and support for their families and carers (the “Objects”). | £30,670,466
<strong>SEASHELL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1092655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092655)]<br>The charity provides  high quality specialist care and education, including physical training, to children and young adults with one or more form of complex communication and learning difficulties which means that they require special provision. Royal Schools for the Deaf, Manchester (charity no 526091) gifted certain assets and its operating activities to Seashell Trust on 1 September 2008. | £26,655,000
<strong>Royal British Veterans Enterprise Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC048795](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048795)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is established are: (a) The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability or incapacity. (b) The relief of the charitable needs of Members and former members of HM Forces, their relatives and dependants. (c) The advancement of education and training. (d) The relief of unemployment for the benefit of the public in such ways as may be thought fit including assistance to find employment. (e) To promote equality of opportunities for people with disabilities in particular in relation to their access to employment. (f) For the purposes of these objects, the word 'disability' includes any physical, mental or sensory disability or disadvantage or restriction of activity however caused and whether permanent or temporary, irrespective of the person's race, nationality, religious belief, sex, sexual orientation or age.  | £24,418,000
<strong>The Cedar Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [NI101121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101121)]<br>We work with service users to offer person centred assistance and support with careers advice, educational opportunities and work experience. We work with employers to seek job opportunities and provide on-going advice and assistance to support the needs of both the service user and their employer so that they can work independently. The Outlook Service allows children and young people to engage in social and recreational activities of their choice outside of their family environment. The Transitions Service is an early intervention service to enable young people to make appropriate choices when moving on from school to Further or Higher Education, training or employment. The Youth Matters Service provides social activities and personal development programmes for young people with disabilities up to 18 years old. Right 4 U offers children and young people who have ASD a made to measure service that makes it possible for them to get out of the house and into their community. We provide a range of Living Options designed to meet the needs of people who have brain injury, physical disability and sensory impairment and for people with learning disabilities. Our Supported Living Service provides independent apartments or bungalows to people with different levels of housing support and care needs. Our Housing Support Service provides support to adults in their own homes and our Floating Support team assists adults living in their own home to carry out their housing responsibilities independently by tailoring a programme to suit their individual needs. We provide 24-hour care in our Residential Services. We provide a range of Social and Community Network programmes to promote peer support and participation in the community | £23,238,668
<strong>HEARING DOGS FOR DEAF PEOPLE</strong> [Charity number: [293358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293358)]<br>The charity's objects are the promotion of health and the relief of sickness in particular by training, providing and supporting animal assisted intervention in the relief of human deafness, disability, sickness, suffering or distress, collaborating with other charities where appropriate. | £16,410,564


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LAVENDER HILL MOB THEATRE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1150188](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150188)]<br>A totally inclusive Theatre Company which specialises in Musical Theatre (encompassing: Acting, Singing, Movement, British Sign Language, Confidence, Self-Esteem and Wellbeing). We try to make a difference to those who need a difference in West Norfolk. | £9,803
<strong>MARY HARE GRAMMAR SCHOOL PARENT TEACHER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1041326](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041326)]<br>School Parent Teacher Association for Mary Hare School for Deaf students. To provide funds for equipment, activities etc for the children at the school. | £4,702
<strong>CACDP</strong> [Charity number: [SC037901](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037901)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are the improvement of communication with deaf, deafened, hard of hearing and deafblind people (hereinafter referred to as deaf people), in particular by the education, training and examination of students and tutors in the different modes of communication used by such persons. | £1,254,979
<strong>Northern Ireland Deaf Sign Language Teachers Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI110157](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-110157)]<br>None | 
<strong>Action Deaf Youth</strong> [Charity number: [NI102041](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102041)]<br>We currently provide a youth support service, a youth employment service and a youth transitions support service for deaf children and young people living in Northern Ireland. Funding support from the Education & Library Boards has enabled us to deliver regional youth support services in Belfast, Craigavon and in Ballymoney. We run deaf children's clubs, aged 4 to 11, on a weekly basis in Belfast and Craigavon as well as a monthly deaf children's club in Ballymoney. We also run a weekly deaf youth club aged 12 to 17 in Belfast and also a monthly deaf Seniors youth club, aged 16 to 25 in Belfast. We also provide personal development projects e.g. media skills training, confidence-building, youth leadership training to deaf young people aged 16 to 25. As well as delivering weekly and monthly clubs, we also provide summer schemes and residential programmes for three different ages groups (4-11, 12-17 and 16-25) across Northern Ireland on an annual basis. We are working on plans to deliver a youth support service in the Western areas of Northern Ireland. Current funding from BBC Children in Need and the Education & Library Board enables us to employ a Youth Support Coordinator, a team of qualified youth workers and volunteers to support this type of delivery. We deliver accredited training qualifications to enable deaf young people to improve their educational and employability prospects. As a registered centre with OCN, we are able to deliver vocational, youth work and ICT qualifications to deaf young people aged 16 to 25. We also support deaf young people going through a transitional period after leaving school. We work with identified organisations to ensure deaf young people receive the necessary support in achieving their educational and employability prospects. We also organise social events for deaf young people to meet up on a regular basis. Our work is about promoting social inclusion, enabling deaf young people to meet their deaf peers, reducing barriers. | £367,934
<strong>SNAP Special Needs Action Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC024792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024792)]<br>The company's objects are:  to provide opportunities, for leisure and socialisation, for people who have a learning disability and/or associated physical or sensory disability, with the object of improving the conditions of life for such people and their families and of helping such people to relate to each other and society in general. | £703,474
<strong>Bellahouston Bequest Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC011781](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011781)]<br>The Trustees shall hold and apply the residue and remainder of our means and estate as a fund to be called the 'Bellahouston Bequest Fund' for the following purposes:-FIRST, For the purpose of aiding by grants of money such of the following Institutions as may from time to time be selected by our Trustees in their sole discretion, viz., (First) The Glasgow Royal Infirmary, (Second) The Glasgow Western Infirmary, (Third) The Glasgow Society for Education of the Deaf and Dumb, (Fourth) The Glasgow Blind Asylum, (Fifth) The West of Scotland Convalescent Seaside Homes, (Sixth) The Glasgow City Mission or the Society for promoting the Religious interests of the Poor of Glasgow and its vicinity, (Seventh) The Glasgow Royal Asylum for Lunatics, (Eighth) The Society for Relief of Indigent Gentlewomen of Scotland, (Ninth) The Glasgow Night Asylum for the Houseless, (Tenth) The Glasgow Industrial Schools, (Eleventh) The Kirk Sessions of the Parishes of Govan and Bellahouston to be applied for the relief of poor persons not receiving Parochial aid, (Twelfth) The National Bible Society of Scotland, (Thirteenth) The City of Glasgow Native Benevolent Association, (Fourteenth) The Glasgow Eye Infirmary. SECOND, For the purpose of founding and endowing or assisting to found and endow Bursaries or Scholarships in connection with the University of Glasgow for students attending or purposing to attend or having with distinction attended the said University to be called the Bellahouston Bursaries or Scholarships. THIRD, For the purpose of founding and endowing or assisting to found and endow Educational Institutions, Professorships or Masterships in the Parliamentary Boundaries of the City of Glasgow or within five miles thereof, for giving scientific and technical instruction. | £142,441
<strong>NORTHALLERTON AND DISTRICT CENTRE FOR THE DEAF</strong> [Charity number: [1083529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083529)]<br>SAME LAST TIME | 
<strong>PETERBOROUGH AND DISTRICT DEAF CHILDREN'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1053815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053815)]<br>PDDCS is the Peterborough and District Deaf Children's Society and we do what we can to provide lots of activities for children who are deaf or have hearing loss in our area (which is anywhere near Peterborough). We do lots of cool stuff for kids from babies and toddlers all the way to young adults (who do it for themselves really) and provide for parents too... | £9,482
<strong>SOUTH OF TYNE AND WEARSIDE DEAF CHILDREN'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [700130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700130)]<br>WE OFFER SUPPORT, ADVICE AND INFORMATION TO PARENTS OF DEAF CHILDREN IN THE NORTH EAST AREA. WE AIM TO ORGANISE EVENTS AND ACTIVITIES TO HELP FAMILIES MEET AND SHARE EXPERIENCES TOGETHER | £2,221
