# Cancer `HE202`

Cancer is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

1,815 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.90% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cancers?|pre( -)?cancerous|cancerous|tumours?|oncolog(y|ist)|carcinoma|chemotherapy|immunotherapy|leukemia|lymphoma)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 613 | 0.83%
£10k - £100k | 545 | 0.79%
£100k - £250k | 189 | 0.90%
£250k - £500k | 96 | 0.95%
£500k - £1m | 71 | 1.12%
£1m - £10m | 115 | 1.34%
Over £10m | 46 | 2.21%
Total | 1,675 | 0.88%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,515 | 0.89%
oscr | 225 | 0.91%
ccni | 75 | 1.04%
Total | 1,815 | 0.90%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Cancer Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC041666](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041666)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to protect and promote the health of the public in particular by research into the nature, causes, diagnosis, prevention, treatment and cure of all forms of cancer, including the development of findings of research into practical applications for the prevention, treatment and cure of cancer and in furtherance of that primary object, to provide information and raise public understanding of such matters. | £718,793,137
<strong>CANCER RESEARCH UK</strong> [Charity number: [1089464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089464)]<br>Cancer Research UK is dedicated to saving lives through research. Our mission is to prevent, control and cure cancer through our ground-breaking research and in the last 40 years our work has helped double survival rates. But there is more work to be done. The only charity fighting over 200 types of cancer, we rely on every pound donated to help get us closer to beating cancer. | £718,793,137
<strong>Macmillan Cancer Support</strong> [Charity number: [SC039907](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039907)]<br>to provrde support, assistance and Information directly or rndirectly to people affected by cancer, (b) to further and build cancer awareness, education and research, (c) to promote and Influence effective care, Involvement and support for people affected by cancer In this Memorandum, 'people offected by cancer' Includes individuals who have a suspected or confirmed cancer diagnosis, their carers, families, friends, work colleagues, and anyone else directly or indirectly affected by cancer | £232,540,000
<strong>MACMILLAN CANCER SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [261017](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261017)]<br>Macmillan Cancer Support exists to help improve the lives of people affected by cancer - those with cancer and their families, carers and communities. We are a source for support, helping anyone affected by cancer navigate through the system to get what they need, and a force for change, working to improve cancer care. | £232,537,097
<strong>THE FRANCIS CRICK INSTITUTE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140062)]<br>The Francis Crick Institute is dedicated to understanding the fundamental biology underlying health and disease. Our work is helping to understand why disease develops and to translate discoveries into new ways to prevent, diagnose and treat illnesses such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, infections and neurodegenerative diseases. | £213,189,000
<strong>Marie Curie</strong> [Charity number: [SC038731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038731)]<br>The Charity is established as a memorial to the late Marie Curie in lasting tribute to her life’s work, and in particular to her discovery of radium and its contribution in fighting the disease of cancer. The charity exists to serve all those with a terminal diagnosis, from cancer or other causes, their families and carers. The objects for which the charity is established for the public benefit are:  2.1.1 to provide and develop caring services, offering support, care and compassion through palliative care, advice and assistance for the benefit of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers.  2.1.2 to undertake and fund research into any aspect of the care and support of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers. and  2.1.3 to provide information, education and support to patients, their families, carers, those working in medical and other caring fields and the public regarding the care of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses. | £169,666,000
<strong>ANTHONY NOLAN</strong> [Charity number: [803716](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803716)]<br>Anthony Nolan saves the lives of people with blood cancer. By growing our register of stem cell donors, conducting research and providing outstanding support to patients, Anthony Nolan cures people's blood cancer and blood disorders. But we need to do more. Without you, there is no cure. | £62,987,000
<strong>Anthony Nolan</strong> [Charity number: [SC038827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038827)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are: 2.1 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those with blood cancers or other blood disorders or affected by an immunological deficiency and any similar or related diseases or conditions (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.2 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those who require a stem cell transplant or who are affected by any disease or condition that may be relieved, treated or cured by any organ or stem cell transplant (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.3 the advancement of research into the causes of and the diagnosis, relief, treatment or cure of those requiring a stem cell transplant or who are affected by an immunological deficiency or any similar or related diseases or conditions and to publish the useful results of such research. and  2.4 the advancement of research into improving organ or stem cell transplantation or any related technique or technology and to publish the useful results of such research.  | £62,987,000
<strong>Breast Cancer Now</strong> [Charity number: [SC045584](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045584)]<br>4.1.1 advance health, including the health of individuals suffering from cancer, patients receiving treatment, those convalescing following treatment by: promoting activities which will assist with awareness, identification and prevention of cancer. assisting those individuals who are disabled, infirm or in need of assistance. 4.1.2 advance the health of individuals by undertaking research into the causes and treatment of cancer on terms that the results of such research are published. 4.1.3 advance public education in and understanding of the nature of cancer and its treatments particularly (without prejudice to that generality) among sufferers of cancer and the families, friends and carers of such persons. and 4.1.4 promote such charitable objects concerned with medical research or the relief of sickness as the Directors shall in their absolute discretion determine. | £49,579,000
<strong>BREAST CANCER NOW</strong> [Charity number: [1160558](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160558)]<br>We're Breast Cancer Now, the UK's largest breast cancer charity and we're dedicated to funding research into this devastating disease.  We're bringing together all those affected by the disease to improve the way we prevent, detect, treat and stop the disease.  We believe that if we all act now, by 2050 everyone who develops breast cancer will live. | £49,579,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE DIANA STARTIN CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1201431](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201431)]<br>The Diana Startin Charitable Trust is a charity that supports the helping of the old, the sick, the disabled, and the disadvantaged. It also supports the relief of patients suffering from Cancer, Parkinson's Disease and Strokes. The charity aims to support local charities within Warwickshire and surrounding areas by donating funds which were given by the founder. | £115,614
<strong>WOMEN'S CANCER PREVENTION PNG</strong> [Charity number: [1206896](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206896)]<br>1. TO PRESERVE AND PROMOTE THE HEALTH OF WOMEN AND GIRLS IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA. 2. TO PREVENT AND PROVIDE RELIEF OF CERVICAL CANCER TO WOMEN IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA.  3. TO PROVIDE EDUCATION ON BREAST AND CERVICAL CANCER TO WOMEN AND GIRLS IN PAPUA NEW GUINEA. | 
<strong>CANCER INFORMATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1142883](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142883)]<br>Offers free information, emotional support and one to one counselling to those with cancer, their families, carers and friends across the Counties of Swansea, Neath Port Talbot and Bridgend. | £281,875
<strong>INDEPENDENT CANCER PATIENTS' VOICE</strong> [Charity number: [1138456](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138456)]<br>ICPV is a patient advocate group-the UK needs an independent cancer patients' group, whose strategy is led by patients. The aim is that medical research, and clinical trials contributing to that research, have a patient input- in order for the research to have the co-operation of patients, leading to improved outcomes for all cancer patients and to help contribute to the cure of all cancers. | £23,428
<strong>ADAM'S BUCKETFUL OF HOPE APPEAL LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1136641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136641)]<br>FUNDRAISING FOR ADDITIONAL FACILITIES IN PROPOSED NEW CANCER CARE DAY UNIT.CANCER SUPPORT SERVICES TO PATIENTS REFERRED FROM LOCAL HOSPITAL. DISTRACTION THERAPIES INCLUDING TRANQUILITY ROOM AND PAMPER ROOM.COUNSELLING VENUE AND INFORMATION CENTRE ALSO USED BY ORGANISATIONS SUCH AS CRUSE BEREAVEMENT COUNSELLING, PEMBS. COUNSELLING SERVICES + PEMBS BREAST CANCER SUPPORT GROUP. | £81,450
<strong>NATIONAL HEREDITARY BREAST CANCER HELPLINE</strong> [Charity number: [1150183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150183)]<br>Operating, organising , managing and promoting an association for the training and/or education and or general advice into all areas of hereditary breast cancerIn order to achieve this objective the charity has opened charity shops which also act as community support and information centres providing support to patients and families | £324,847
<strong>MA MUNDELE AFRICA CAUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1200626](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200626)]<br>THE CHARITY’S OBJECTIVES (“THE OBJECTS”) ARE TO:IN THE UNITED KINGDOM:1. TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT LIMITED TO PROVIDING ESSENTIAL ITEMS INCLUDING FOOD, CLOTHING, SLEEPING BAGS, BLANKETS TO THE HOMELESS AND VOLUNTEERING OPPORTUNITIES WITHIN THE CHARITY SHOP TO PROVIDE THOSE IN FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WITH SKILLS TRAINING TO IMPROVE THEIR EMPLOYABILITY SKILLS;2. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING A VISITING FRIENDS SERVICE TO THOSE IN CARE HOMES AND PROVIDING RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES / OUTINGS TO FAMILIES WHO WOULD OTHERWISE BE UNABLE TO AFFORD THEM.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY);3. TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT GOOD HEALTH BY RAISING AWARENESS OF MEDICAL CONDITIONS SUCH AS CANCER AND DIABETES AND BY SUCH OTHER MEANS AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE;IN AFRICA:1. TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP BY SUPPORTING ORPHANAGES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE AND TO ASSIST THEM WITH EQUIPMENT TO HELP TOWARDS THEIR EDUCATION;2. TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT GOOD HEALTH BY OFFERING HEALTH CARE AWARENESS TO ASSIST COMMUNITIES WITH LIMITED ACCESS TO HEALTH SERVICES DUE TO FINANCIAL HARDSHIP AND TO PROVIDE EQUIPMENT TO MONITOR CONDITIONS SUCH AS BLOOD PRESSURE, DIABETIC SUGAR LEVEL TESTING AND SUCH OTHER HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT AS DEEMED APPROPRIATE AND TO OPERATE AND SUPPORT CARE HOMES; AND3. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION AMONG ELDERLY PERSONS WHO ARE EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY BECAUSE THEY LIVE IN CARE HOMES BY PROVIDING COMPANIONSHIP FOR THE RESIDENTS. | 
<strong>BUTTERFLY GIVING</strong> [Charity number: [1150897](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150897)]<br>Butterfly Giving raises money to support young people, aged 11-24, who have been diagnosed with cancer. We also support friends and family of the young people we work with. Our main activity is currently The Sunshine Project, working with hospitals and individuals to create smiles and moments of happiness. | £1,144
<strong>Kilbryde Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC032424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032424)]<br>The company's charitable purposes are:- 2.1.1 the advancement of health. 2.1.2 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 2.1.3 the advancement of education (in so far as consistent with the purposes at 2.1.2 and 2.1.3). 2.2 The foregoing charitable purposes, which are designed primarily to provide inclusive care, support, comfort, information, resources and friendship for all affected by cancer and other diseases to help meet their physical, practical, functional, social and emotional needs, are to be particularly furthered by the company:- 2.2.1 operating as a 'fund-raising' foundation to gather support (through financial support, volunteering, the provision of equipment and otherwise) from charities, local and central government, community organisations, individuals and others and then to use and apply that support to further the charitable purposes. 2.2.2 constructing a purpose built hospice and related infrastructure. 2.2.3 providing and supporting hospice based care and support services (whether or not involving accommodation) to/for those affected by cancer and having palliative care needs. such care and support also being made available to family members, carers and others. 2.2.4 developing and delivering throughout local communities a sustainable programme of care, support and information to/for those affected by cancer. such care, support and information also being made available to family members, carers and others. 2.2.5 either as part of collective networks or otherwise, engaging with hospitals, hospices, general practice surgeries, local and central government, nonstatutory agencies, charities, other groups and individuals to best deliver care, support and information on matters connected to the company's charitable purposes. and 2.2.6 developing and encouraging programmes of education and training tailored to meet the needs of patients, carers, families, volunteers and professionals.  | £3,871,268
<strong>RUGBY CHARITY BALL CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1150492](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150492)]<br>Rugby Charity Ball Charitable trust raises funds for cancer charities within the local community with the aim of improving the service offered to those suffering with cancer in and around the Rugby area.We do this by raising valuable funds through an annual ball, raffles, auctions, stalls at local events, corporate sponsorship by local business, fund matching and donations | 
