# Dementia `HE205`

Dementia is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

619 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.30% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(dementia|demented|alzheimer)`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 125 | 0.18%
£10k - £100k | 179 | 0.25%
£100k - £250k | 85 | 0.38%
£250k - £500k | 63 | 0.57%
£500k - £1m | 34 | 0.49%
£1m - £10m | 59 | 0.64%
Over £10m | 27 | 1.20%
Total | 572 | 0.30%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 521 | 0.30%
oscr | 79 | 0.32%
ccni | 19 | 0.27%
Total | 619 | 0.30%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £233,636,544
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [296645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296645)]<br>Alzheimer's Society staff and volunteers provide services to people affected by dementia, including day care and home care, support and befriending services across England, Wales, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Northern Ireland. We provide information and training, and every year we invest in research. We campaign for the rights of people with dementia and those who care for them. | £143,833,000
<strong>Radius Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102575)]<br>Radius Housing Association provides housing, care and support to over 33,000 homes throughout Northern Ireland. Radius was established in 2017 following the merger of Helm and Fold housing associations and draws on over 80 years of combined experience to make a positive impact on housing and communities into the future. Radius is now one of the leading housing associations in Northern Ireland. Radius has also developed a range of services that allow us to offer our clients the right level of support in their own home or in our accommodation:- # Housing for Older People with Dementia and the Frail Elderly # Supported Housing # Day Care visits # Personal Pendant Alarms # Telemonitoring service (monitoring patient’s vital signs in their home) # Assistance for people with a disability to make home adaptations Radius's services are delivered in partnership with the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, the Department for Communities and the Health and Social Care Trusts. | £116,091,659
<strong>ALTERNATIVE FUTURES GROUP  LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1008587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1008587)]<br>The charity operates in the North West of England and provides services for people with disabilities including adults with severe and enduring mental health problems, learning disabilities, autism, complex needs and dementia. | £80,677,000
<strong>Praxis Care</strong> [Charity number: [NI103672](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103672)]<br>Praxis Care is a major provider of services for adults and children with a learning disability, mental ill health, acquired brain injury and for older people, including people with dementia. | £71,879,864
<strong>THE AVENUES TRUST GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1130473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130473)]<br>The Avenues Group pioneers specialist social care that supports individuals facing disadvantage through illness and disability so they can live full lives in their local communities.  We support adults and children in their own homes or in a residential setting who have learning disabilities, autism, mental health issues, acquired brain injury or dementia. | £67,222,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION CARE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1163245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163245)]<br>The main activity is the provision of 1096 registered beds for Residential, Dementia, and Nursing care in 17 Care Homes throughout England and Wales. In addition the Charity runs approximately 145 sheltered units for those who seek independence and can still look after themselves. Many of these tenants later become residents in the Homes. | £64,636,000
<strong>CARE SOUTH</strong> [Charity number: [1014697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014697)]<br>Care South provides quality care services in the south of England to up to 2000 people each day.  All aspects of care including dementia, nursing, frailty and special needs are provided to people either in Care South's care homes or in their own homes. | £62,541,000
<strong>Alzheimer's Research UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC042474](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042474)]<br>3.1 The Objects of the Charity are: (a) to preserve and protect the health of the public by promoting or assisting the promotion of research into the causal mechanisms of neuro-degenerative diseases with the aim of treating or preventing Alzheimer's Disease, dementia and other conditions having a similar or related cause and to disseminate the results of such research . and (b) to advance the education of the public into the symptoms, causes and treatment of dementia and other conditions having a similar or related cause. | £61,949,957
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S RESEARCH UK</strong> [Charity number: [1077089](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077089)]<br>Alzheimer's Research UK is the UK's leading dementia research charity. We believe in the power of research to defeat dementia. We fund pioneering studies that will make a difference to people's lives and we're committed to increasing funds for the next breakthrough. We are energising a movement to support and take part in research and to empower people through greater understanding of dementia. | £61,949,957


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Jessie Eades Memorial Church of the Nazarene</strong> [Charity number: [NI106453](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106453)]<br>Organises weekly services and other gatherings for members and non - members, to present the teachings of the Bible and to provide opportunities for Christian response, including but not limited to prayer and worship. The meetings are free of charge and open to all. Meetings are held every week on Sunday morning and sometimes Sunday evening. There are also midweek meetings providing gatherings to carry out the stated activities of the Church. Additionally the Church organises gatherings for specific disadvantaged groups. The Church employs a pastor to promote and coordinate this work along with a committee of volunteers made up of Church members. The Church provides teaching and training opportunities for members, using the resources of the staff employed by the Church and also external courses and events. The Church assists the work of individual Christians and Christian organisations, insofar as that work, whether in this country or abroad, accords with the Church's aims. The Church makes donations as agreed periodically by the members of the Church. The purpose of these donations includes the promotion of religious activity, relief of poverty, training and equipping, work with youth and the elderly, homeless and other local and national charities. Our members currently support a weekly gathering for those suffering dementia and their carers to provide social interaction and respite, they provide a mother and toddler group to provide a balanced education and development environment for those pre-school age, they provide facilities for various disadvantaged groups, and they provide facilities for youth. | £59,296
<strong>THE CHARLES GREEN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [207368](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207368)]<br>We give grants to individuals raising money for charity, especially those who are giving their own time and effort.We also give directly to other charities.Our priorities are Cancer, Alzheimers, Great Ormond St, National Trust and other medical, jewish, educational, community and childrens' charities in the UK. | £5,267
<strong>TRENT DEMENTIA SERVICES DEVELOPMENT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1109855](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109855)]<br>Trent Dementia aims to improve the quality of care, support and wellbeing of people who are living with dementia and their supporters, by providing information, supportive group activities, provides training and other educational events, and promoting independence. | £64,057
<strong>ABBEYFIELD SILVERDALE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1174376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174376)]<br>The Society's primary activity is to provide care and support to older people through the provision of residential care services at its site in Silverdale, Lancashire, plus a retirement living complex and a supported living unit, also on site. These services are open to all older people in need regardless of their mental or physical frailty and include people with dementia and end of life care. | £2,013,413
<strong>SILVERTON ROOM 4 U</strong> [Charity number: [1165723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165723)]<br>Raising money to purchase a derelict village toilet and rebuild it into a health and well being centre for Silverton and its surrounding area. The main aim of this will be to provide care for dementia sufferers and their carers. In addition we intend to provide specialist treatments such as Aromatherapy, Reflexology, Chiropody and Stroke Therapy. | £14,312
<strong>THE LIVING MEMORY PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1214720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1214720)]<br>We deliver engaging reminiscence talks and activities, weaving music, history and cultural stories to support older people, including those with dementia. Operating mainly in care homes and hospitals across England, we aim to spark memories, reduce loneliness, and improve well-being through shared experiences. | 
<strong>ACCESSIBLE ARTS & MEDIA</strong> [Charity number: [1072902](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072902)]<br>Accessible Arts &amp; Media runs a range of inclusive creative learning and wellbeing projects for groups including disabled adults and young people, older people with dementia and people with enduring mental health problems. Our projects help people develop the skills and confidence to connect with their local community and have more of a say in the things that matter to them. | £190,329
<strong>TAVISTOCK DEMENTIA ACTION ALLIANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1177430](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177430)]<br>Relieve social isolation and loneliness of people with a dementia and their carers in Tavistock and the surrounding area by providing social activities to meet their needs. Increase awareness/understanding of dementia in Tavistock and the surrounding area by providing free training to businesses and social groups.  Work in association with other charities and groups to provide dementia support. | £27,318
<strong>YASMIN'S GIFT</strong> [Charity number: [1176180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176180)]<br>The Charity intends to be self funding by investing in property to provide a continuous source of income.From the above funding, the Charity will make provision primarily for children in need in a variety of circumstances. Other areas of funding provision will include dementia and Cancer.The Charity operates from England. | £48,547
<strong>THE ELEANOR GRACE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1187177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187177)]<br>The trustees currently consider grant applications for:-Healthcare and medical research for the treatment and rehabilitation of patients suffering from severe burns or degenerative brain diseases such as dementia and Alzheimer's.-Animal welfare in relation to the re-homing of abandoned or displaced animals and providing shelters for retired or rescued animals.-Alleviating youth homelessness. | 
