# Maternity `HE209`

Maternity is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

491 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.24% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(maternity|pregnancy|pregnant|miscarriage|(post|pre|neo)+natal|partal|child(- )?birth|(preterm|premature)+ (baby|babies)+|still(- )?(birth|born)+|midwi[fv]e|obstetric(s|ian))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 157 | 0.19%
£10k - £100k | 161 | 0.25%
£100k - £250k | 54 | 0.29%
£250k - £500k | 27 | 0.30%
£500k - £1m | 15 | 0.27%
£1m - £10m | 17 | 0.22%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.40%
Total | 438 | 0.23%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 401 | 0.24%
oscr | 68 | 0.27%
ccni | 22 | 0.32%
Total | 491 | 0.24%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NURSING AND MIDWIFERY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1091434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091434)]<br>The NMC is the independent regulator for nurses and midwives in the UK. Our primary purpose is to protect patients and the public through effective and proportionate regulation of nurses and midwives. We set and promote standards of education and practice, maintain a register of those who meet these standards, and take action when a nurse's or midwife's fitness to practise is called into question. | £100,398,000
<strong>BRITISH PREGNANCY ADVISORY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [289145](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289145)]<br>Supporting reproductive choice by advocating and providing high quality, affordable services to prevent or end unwanted pregnancy with contraception or by abortion | £37,889,491
<strong>ROYAL COLLEGE OF OBSTETRICIANS AND GYNAECOLOGISTS</strong> [Charity number: [213280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213280)]<br>The encouragement of the study and the advancement of the science and practice of obstetrics and gynaecology. | £20,957,725
<strong>Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists</strong> [Charity number: [SC041594](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041594)]<br>That the objects of the existing College are declared by its Memorandum of Association to be 'the encouragement of the study and the improvement of the practice of obstetrics and gynaecology subjects which should be inseparably interwoven' by the aid of all or any of the following:- | £20,957,725
<strong>Advance HE</strong> [Charity number: [SC043946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043946)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are : (A) to promote higher education for the public benefit by: (1) providing strategic advice and co-ordination to the higher education sector, government, funding bodies and others on policies and practices that will impact upon and enhance the student experience. (2) supporting and advancing curriculum and pedagogic development across the whole spectrum of higher education activity. and (3) facilitating the professional development and increasing the professional standing of all staff in higher education.  (B) to further promote higher education for the public benefit by further developing the professionalism and profile of leadership, management and governance within the higher education sector, by: (1) raising the profile of effective higher education leadership, management and governance. (2) improving the supply of development opportunities, particularly in relation to international and cross sector experience. (3) stimulating further demand for development within the higher education sector. and (4) assisting in broadening perspectives and improving standards in relation to leadership, management and governance within the higher education sector,  (C) to promote equality and diversity for the public benefit, including the education sector and any other sectors that the Board deems appropriate, by: (1) identifying and changing any cultural and systemic practices that unfairly exclude, marginalise or disadvantage individuals or groups, and to promote inclusive approaches. (2) eliminating discrimination on the grounds of age, disability, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity status, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation or through any combination of these characteristics or other unfair treatment. (3) advancing education and raising awareness in equality and diversity. (4) promoting activities to foster understanding between people from diverse backgrounds. (5) conducting or commissioning research on equality and diversity issues and publishing the results to the public. and (6) developing the case for equality and diversity. | £15,294,000
<strong>The National Childbirth Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041592)]<br>3. The objects for which the Charity is established are:  3.1 to preserve and protect the mental and physical health of pregnant women by, but not exclusively, the provision of physical, emotional and practical support during pregnancy and childbirth. 3.2 to preserve and protect the mental and physical health of parents and their children during the postnatal period. and 3.3 to advance the education of the public including healthcare professionals in childbirth and parenthood. | £10,413,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL CHILDBIRTH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [801395](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801395)]<br>We offer information and support in pregnancy, childbirth and early parenthoodWe aim to give every parent the chance to make informed choicesWe want to make sure that everyone in the UK, regardless of background or location, has access to our services and activitiesWe advocate on behalf of parents to make the UK more parent friendly by improving services and support for parents | £10,413,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION OF GYNECOLOGY AND OBSTETRICS</strong> [Charity number: [1113263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113263)]<br>The activiites include:organisation and administration of safe motherhood projects around the world, designed to reduce maternal mortality in low and middle resource countries;awarding of modest grants to societies involved in the organisation of national workshops on maternal mortality and safe motherhood ;organisation of international workshops and meetings; awarding of fellowships; | £7,742,808
<strong>Tommy's</strong> [Charity number: [SC039280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039280)]<br>1. The advancement of education in and the practise of gynaecology and obstetrics by all charitable means and in particular by: (a) funding research and the publication of its results. (b) promoting the education of both those engaged in the practice of gynaecology and obstetrics and the public care of mothers and babies before and after birth. and (c) providing equipment. and 2. such other charitable purposes as the trustees in their absolute discretion determine. | £6,981,335
<strong>TOMMY'S</strong> [Charity number: [1060508](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060508)]<br>The prevention of problems experienced during pregnancy. | £6,981,335


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SICKLE CELL CARERS AWARENESS NETWORK (SCCAN)</strong> [Charity number: [1130740](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130740)]<br>In UK:Fundraising for Sierra Leone Partners Developing partnerships Training, Capacity buildingCommunity Awareness and Sensitiasation ProgrammesIn Sierra Leone:Medical screening programme for pregnant women and new born babies and civil society partnerships, education and training Community care for patientsCommunity Awareness and Sensitiasation Programmes. | £945
<strong>Advance HE</strong> [Charity number: [SC043946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043946)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are : (A) to promote higher education for the public benefit by: (1) providing strategic advice and co-ordination to the higher education sector, government, funding bodies and others on policies and practices that will impact upon and enhance the student experience. (2) supporting and advancing curriculum and pedagogic development across the whole spectrum of higher education activity. and (3) facilitating the professional development and increasing the professional standing of all staff in higher education.  (B) to further promote higher education for the public benefit by further developing the professionalism and profile of leadership, management and governance within the higher education sector, by: (1) raising the profile of effective higher education leadership, management and governance. (2) improving the supply of development opportunities, particularly in relation to international and cross sector experience. (3) stimulating further demand for development within the higher education sector. and (4) assisting in broadening perspectives and improving standards in relation to leadership, management and governance within the higher education sector,  (C) to promote equality and diversity for the public benefit, including the education sector and any other sectors that the Board deems appropriate, by: (1) identifying and changing any cultural and systemic practices that unfairly exclude, marginalise or disadvantage individuals or groups, and to promote inclusive approaches. (2) eliminating discrimination on the grounds of age, disability, gender identity, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity status, race, religion or belief, sex, sexual orientation or through any combination of these characteristics or other unfair treatment. (3) advancing education and raising awareness in equality and diversity. (4) promoting activities to foster understanding between people from diverse backgrounds. (5) conducting or commissioning research on equality and diversity issues and publishing the results to the public. and (6) developing the case for equality and diversity. | £15,294,000
<strong>MAYBUSH HEALTH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1191059](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191059)]<br>For the benefit of public in the UK and a rural area of District Gujrat, Pakistan the relief of sickness and to promote and protect the health of the public by:-a) Public health education about prevention of illness through media and educational programmes. b) Primary prevention of illness through public health awareness campaigns e.g. obesity and smoking cessation campaigns c) Organising free clinic and or medical camps as and when needed to meet the needs of the public d) Helping the public in time of natural disaster and or pandemic through education, awareness and psychological support. e) Supporting and collaborating with local charitable organisations working for similar objectives e.g. MacMillan cancer support charities f) Supporting patients during hospital transfers for clinics and emergencies if appropriate g) Helping poor patients pay for medical treatments as necessary.h) Promoting mental wellbeing through counselling and support sessions and programmes for general public and patients with mental health concerns.i) Promoting and protecting child and maternal health through better education and support of pregnant women. j) Supporting individuals and general public to take control of their health through social prescribing.k) Aiming to raise standards of health care through Education and Training of Health Professionals. | 
<strong>PANDAS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1149485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149485)]<br>PANDAS is the leading UK charity in supporting familie suffering from pre (antenatal) and postnatal illnesses. PANDAS vision is to support every individual and their network,suffering with perinatal mental health illnesses. We campaign to raise awareness and remove the stigma. We provide our PANDAS Help Line, Support Groups, and online advice to all and much more. We operate in England and Wales. | £165,897
<strong>DAUGHTERS OF SALFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1185587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185587)]<br>Distribution of nappies, food, and other items needed in the first few months after childbirth to persons referred to the charity by professionals. | £13,837
<strong>Drongan Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC021994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021994)]<br>The aims of the Association are to involve the community of Drongan ('the area') irrespective of race, nationaIity, political views, age, religion or belief, gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, disability, marriage or civil partnership status, pregnancy or maternity in a common effort to: a) promote lifelong learning and social welfare. b) strengthen community cohesion. c) provide opportunities for leisure and recreation. d) encourage the whole community to use the Centre where appropriate | £5,581
<strong>DANYAR RELIEF & DEVELOPMENT ORGANISATION LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1186723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186723)]<br> doing a charitable campaign to collect funds and provide relief food, and accommodations in Somalia, visiting people in prison in the United  Kingdom, training pregnant mothers on values of eating good food during pregnancy and after birth.The above meets the objectives and purposes of the organization.FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY OF CHILDREN AND ORPHANS | £5,795
<strong>Yellow Rose Launchpad SCIO </strong> [Charity number: [SC050919](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050919)]<br>4 The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the objects are: 4.1 to advance education for young women in Science, Technology and Mathematics-related subjects in Nigeria. 4.1.1 to relieve the needs of young women in Nigeria who are disadvantaged by being at risk of not continuing education due to adverse socio-economic factors such as: lack of funds, domestic or emotional abuse, threat of early marriage, teenage pregnancy, and homelessness, and in furtherance of these purposes by the following activities. 4.2 making available scholarships and funding to support the education of young women in Nigeria. 4.3 Working in partnership with other bodies to achieve the purposes. | £1,284
<strong>GEANCO</strong> [Charity number: [1186076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186076)]<br>GEANCO saves and transforms lives in Africa. We conduct complex surgical missions and run an innovative program to fight anemia in Nigeria. Through our system of modern maternal clinics, we help poor, vulnerable pregnant women safely deliver healthy babies. Our  Leadership Scholarship for Girls provides full tuition, healthcare, and social support to young female survivors of terrorism. | 
<strong>THE BLAYZE'ING STAR</strong> [Charity number: [1166725](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166725)]<br>Raise money and awareness of Group B Strep in pregnant ladies by providing the test | £886
