# Fibromyalgia `HE206`

Fibromyalgia is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

20 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.01% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(fibromyalgia)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 10 | 0.01%
£10k - £100k | 7 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 0 | 0.00%
£250k - £500k | 1 | 0.01%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 18 | 0.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 10 | 0.01%
ccni | 5 | 0.07%
oscr | 5 | 0.02%
Total | 20 | 0.01%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FIBROMYALGIA ACTION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1042582](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042582)]<br>THE CHARITY PROVIDES INFORMATION AND SUPPORT TO PEOPLE SUFFERING FROM FIBROMYALGIA IN THE UK.  IT ALSO RAISES AWARENESS OF THE CONDITION AMONGST MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS AND PROMOTES RESEARCH. | £491,497
<strong>Ballykeel Business Development Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI101471](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101471)]<br>Ballykeel Business Centre offers workspace units on favourable terms to those starting and growing their business. Facilities promote local entrepreneurship and opportunities for employment. Incubation start up package offers one month rent free and business advice through partnership with Ballymena Business Centre. Tenancy Agreements reflect a maximum of 2 month notice period. In 2006 Ballykeel Business Centre was recognised as the most enterprising place in Northern Ireland and UK Highly Commended through the Enterprising Britain Awards sponsored by Invest NI. Ballykeel Business Centre offers training and meeting room facilities for those providing education, retraining, up skilling and promoting community development opportunities to the residents of the Ballymena South area. Organisations and services include - English, Maths, IT, Art, First Aid, Silk Painting for over 60's, Food Hygiene, Child Protection, Lip Reading Classes, Hard of Hearing for Elderly, Brain Injury Rehabilitation Classes, Fibromyalgia Group Meeting, Health and Beauty for Women, Emotional Health and Wellbeing, Dementia Awareness, Mood Matters, Youth Forum, DSD Renewal Group and Ballykeel Together. | £74,178
<strong>Fibromyalgia Awareness NI (FMANI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100292](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100292)]<br>We are a support group for sufferers of Fibromyalgia Patients in Northern Ireland & beyond, their carers and families. We run a charity shop where all proceeds go to (FMANI) A drop-in support centre, this is open to the public to call in and get information & Advice on Fibromyalgia. An online support group. We provide information and support on issues regarding health and benefits. We offer counselling and complementary therapies to better manage pain, depression and isolation issues. We run a 24 hour online support group on facebook. You can ask to be connected to our group via the link below! https://www.facebook.com/groups/fmani/ As well as a phone service Helpline.0845 600 3213 Our Helpline is open Mon - Fri 10:30am -16:30pm (Except bank holidays). Office: 028 777 68066 | £39,073
<strong>Dumfries & Galloway ME and Fibromyalgia Network [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC051578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051578)]<br>To support the needs of people in Dumfries & Galloway who suffer with Myalgic Encephalomyelitis (ME), Fibromyalgia (FM), Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) and Post-Viral Fatigue Syndrome (PVFS). | £36,950
<strong>CARDIFF AND VALE FIBROFIGHTERS</strong> [Charity number: [1187154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187154)]<br>We are offering support groups for people suffering with fibromyalgia and their partners and families and careers we do outreach to get information out there on fibromyalgia by holding awareness days | £22,116
<strong>NINE LOCKS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [517933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517933)]<br>A Community Centre providing the following groups:- Fibromyalgia Support Group, Art for over 50's, Children's Dance Classes, Sequence Dances, Tea Dances, Indoor Bowling, Slimming World, Pilates, Swing Dance Classes, Christian Fellowship Meetings, Keep Fit Classes, Karate Classes, Urban Dance Classes. Hall available for casual hire. | £20,107
<strong>Hope 4 ME & Fibro Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI100184](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100184)]<br>We hold twelve monthly meetings each year and provide specialist speakers to learn patients how to better manage their illness and to avoid further deterioration in health. Provide a referral service to other organisations who deal with specific problems which patients are also face with ie benefits, suicidal thoughts and help or advise with lack of income. We organise a yearly medical professionals education conference, again we bring the top specialists in this area of medicine from around the world. Provide educational material to professionals on request. Fundraise for bio-medical research and forward these funds to charities who specialise in this area of research. Work with MLAs and the Dept of Health to lobby for adequate specialist NHS services for patients suffering from M.E. and Fibromyalgia. | £18,526
<strong>More Than Fibro (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC051049](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051049)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 The relief of financial hardship among people living with or caring for people with Fibromyalgia through support to access benefits, grants and services  4.2 To promote the physical and mental health of sufferers of Fibromyalgia across Scotland through the provision of support, education and practical advice  4.3 To advance the education of the public in all areas relating to Fibromyalgia  4.4 To promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those people who are socially excluded and assisting them to integrate into society | £17,615
<strong>CONTINUING COMMUNITY CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1204035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204035)]<br>To assist in the treatment and care of people suffering from Long-Term Conditions by providing appropriate facilities, equipment and services that promote health and independence. We offer clients with LTC's Hydrotherapy services such as Aquafit and Aquarobics. Hydrotherapy is commonly used to support clients recovering from conditions including joint replacements, fibromyalgia, arthritis & stroke | £2,477
<strong>Fibromyalgia Support N. Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI105015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105015)]<br>FMSNI provides information and support on issues relating to fibromyalgia by way of our Helpline which operates Mon-Fri 10.30-4.00 (except for holiday periods which will be announced online). Tel 08448 269024 (National rates apply). Additional support is available online through our website (www.fmsni.org.uk) and also on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/FMSNI/). Our office at the Vine Centre, 193 Crumlin Road, BT14 7DX is available by appt on Tues mornings for anyone wishing to drop in and obtain direct assistance. We also provide membership at £13 p.a. (other rates available - full details on the website) which provides a Quarterly Newsletter and info on upcoming meetings. FMSNI tries to hold a medical based conference every 2-3 years where possible to obtain updated information on research. | £2,209


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MADELAINARTZ</strong> [Charity number: [1148541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148541)]<br>To hold Fundraising Art Exhibitions and Spiritual Events in order to raise funds and awareness for Fibromyalgia, To run Creative Workshops in Mental Health and Well Being for Chronic pain and Fibromyalgia sufferers. Most activities are held within our church space. We currently operate from West Kirby Spiritualist Church and Madelainartz ONLINE platforms due to Covid Changes. | £786
<strong>More Than Fibro (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC051049](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051049)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 The relief of financial hardship among people living with or caring for people with Fibromyalgia through support to access benefits, grants and services  4.2 To promote the physical and mental health of sufferers of Fibromyalgia across Scotland through the provision of support, education and practical advice  4.3 To advance the education of the public in all areas relating to Fibromyalgia  4.4 To promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those people who are socially excluded and assisting them to integrate into society | £17,615
<strong>Fibromyalgia Support N. Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI105015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105015)]<br>FMSNI provides information and support on issues relating to fibromyalgia by way of our Helpline which operates Mon-Fri 10.30-4.00 (except for holiday periods which will be announced online). Tel 08448 269024 (National rates apply). Additional support is available online through our website (www.fmsni.org.uk) and also on Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/FMSNI/). Our office at the Vine Centre, 193 Crumlin Road, BT14 7DX is available by appt on Tues mornings for anyone wishing to drop in and obtain direct assistance. We also provide membership at £13 p.a. (other rates available - full details on the website) which provides a Quarterly Newsletter and info on upcoming meetings. FMSNI tries to hold a medical based conference every 2-3 years where possible to obtain updated information on research. | £2,209
<strong>CARDIFF AND VALE FIBROFIGHTERS</strong> [Charity number: [1187154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187154)]<br>We are offering support groups for people suffering with fibromyalgia and their partners and families and careers we do outreach to get information out there on fibromyalgia by holding awareness days | £22,116
<strong>Ballykeel Business Development Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI101471](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101471)]<br>Ballykeel Business Centre offers workspace units on favourable terms to those starting and growing their business. Facilities promote local entrepreneurship and opportunities for employment. Incubation start up package offers one month rent free and business advice through partnership with Ballymena Business Centre. Tenancy Agreements reflect a maximum of 2 month notice period. In 2006 Ballykeel Business Centre was recognised as the most enterprising place in Northern Ireland and UK Highly Commended through the Enterprising Britain Awards sponsored by Invest NI. Ballykeel Business Centre offers training and meeting room facilities for those providing education, retraining, up skilling and promoting community development opportunities to the residents of the Ballymena South area. Organisations and services include - English, Maths, IT, Art, First Aid, Silk Painting for over 60's, Food Hygiene, Child Protection, Lip Reading Classes, Hard of Hearing for Elderly, Brain Injury Rehabilitation Classes, Fibromyalgia Group Meeting, Health and Beauty for Women, Emotional Health and Wellbeing, Dementia Awareness, Mood Matters, Youth Forum, DSD Renewal Group and Ballykeel Together. | £74,178
<strong>NINE LOCKS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [517933](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517933)]<br>A Community Centre providing the following groups:- Fibromyalgia Support Group, Art for over 50's, Children's Dance Classes, Sequence Dances, Tea Dances, Indoor Bowling, Slimming World, Pilates, Swing Dance Classes, Christian Fellowship Meetings, Keep Fit Classes, Karate Classes, Urban Dance Classes. Hall available for casual hire. | £20,107
<strong>CONTINUING COMMUNITY CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1204035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204035)]<br>To assist in the treatment and care of people suffering from Long-Term Conditions by providing appropriate facilities, equipment and services that promote health and independence. We offer clients with LTC's Hydrotherapy services such as Aquafit and Aquarobics. Hydrotherapy is commonly used to support clients recovering from conditions including joint replacements, fibromyalgia, arthritis & stroke | £2,477
<strong>Aberdeen And District Fibromyalgia Support Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC033870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033870)]<br>The objects of the group are:  2.1 To seek to relieve the needs of those suffering from Fibromyalgia  2.2 To advance public awareness of Fibromyalgia by working in partnership with other organisations with similar objectives and also with voluntary groups and statutory bodies  2.3 To provide support for and to improve the quality of life of those suffering from Fibromyalgia | £418
<strong>BURY AND BOLTON ME/CFS & FIBROMYALGIA SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1161356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161356)]<br>Meetings and Socials;Newsletter;Weekly free, adapted yogaBenefit and Work informationAwareness leaflets publication and distributionEquipment to borrowComprehensive book and CD libraryPhone line enquiry/info linePrivate Facebook groupRepresentation at steering groups at local level, NHS and government. | £1,027
<strong>FIBROMYALGIA ACTION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1042582](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042582)]<br>THE CHARITY PROVIDES INFORMATION AND SUPPORT TO PEOPLE SUFFERING FROM FIBROMYALGIA IN THE UK.  IT ALSO RAISES AWARENESS OF THE CONDITION AMONGST MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS AND PROMOTES RESEARCH. | £491,497
