# Mental health `HE210`

Mental health is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

3,461 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.71% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(mental (ill[- ])?health|mental illness|mental & physical health|eating dissorder|phobi(a|c)|anorexia|bulimia|depression|anxiety|OCD|obsessive[- ]compulsive disorder|suicid(es?|al)|post-traumatic stress disorder|ptsd|psycho(tic|sis)|bi(-| )?polar|schizophreni(a|c)|psychiatr(y|ist)|psycholog(y|ist)|(behavioural|cognitive) therapy)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 681 | 0.85%
£10k - £100k | 943 | 1.38%
£100k - £250k | 439 | 2.34%
£250k - £500k | 281 | 3.18%
£500k - £1m | 185 | 3.39%
£1m - £10m | 271 | 3.59%
Over £10m | 59 | 3.34%
Total | 2,859 | 1.50%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,583 | 1.52%
oscr | 619 | 2.44%
ccni | 259 | 3.94%
Total | 3,461 | 1.71%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £204,100,000
<strong>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE</strong> [Charity number: [519996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519996)]<br>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE WORK ACROSS THE WHOLE OF THE CARE SPECTRUM DELIVERING DIVERSE SUPPORT AND CARE SERVICES ACROSS ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND.  THE CHARITY PROVIDES SUPPORTED LIVING FOR PEOPLE WITH LEARNING OR PHYSICAL DIFFICULTIES AND/OR MENTAL HEALTH CONCERNS AS WELL AS RESIDENTIAL AND NURSING CARE FOR OLDER PEOPLE INCLUDING DEMENTIA CARE USING ITS EACHSTEP MODEL OF CARE. | £131,365,465
<strong>TURNING POINT</strong> [Charity number: [234887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234887)]<br>Turning Point provides health and social care services for people with a learning disability and also people at risk of, or with a mental health diagnosis, mental health issues, drug or alcohol use, misuse or dependency or other addictive behaviours. | £128,220,579
<strong>THE PRUDENCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1187700](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187700)]<br>The Prudence Trust makes grants in the following areas; mental health, disadvantaged communities, the arts, the environment and other general grant-making. | £116,376,894
<strong>UNITED RESPONSE</strong> [Charity number: [265249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265249)]<br>United Response is a national charity that works with adults and young people with learning disabilities, mental health needs or physical disabilities. Our mission is to enable the people we support to take control of their lives.  United Response is community based, working in many localities across England and Wales, providing everything from 24 hour care to a few hours of support a week. | £94,209,000
<strong>PARTNERSHIP SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1175080](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175080)]<br>The provision of social care, welfare, support, health, education, employment and housing support, particularly for people who have learning difficulties, mental health problems, are on the autistic spectrum, have physical illness, other health needs, are elderly or infirm or have support needs because of their youth, lack of education, poverty, the misuse of drugs, alcohol or other substances. | £63,783,000
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [1001957](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001957)]<br>PROVIDES A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL MISUSERS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN COMMUNTY AND PRISON ENVIRONMENTS. FROM EDUCATION AND PREVENTION TO COMMUNITY SERVICES AND RESIDENTIAL REHABILIATION.WE ALSO SUPORT THE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH DIFFICULITIES | £63,524,000
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £62,033,000
<strong>ALTERNATIVE FUTURES GROUP  LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1008587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1008587)]<br>The charity operates in the North West of England and provides services for people with disabilities including adults with severe and enduring mental health problems, learning disabilities, autism, complex needs and dementia. | £60,808,000
<strong>MIND (THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR MENTAL HEALTH)</strong> [Charity number: [219830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219830)]<br>We provide information and support, campaign to improve policy and attitudes and, in partnership with independent local Minds, develop and provide local services. | £58,279,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WEST WALES ACTION FOR MENTAL HEALTH</strong> [Charity number: [1045123](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1045123)]<br>Working together with service users, carers, voluntary organisations, statutory providers and commissioners to improve the standards of mental health throughout West Wales.  Has helped to develop projects for self help groups, drop in services, befriending schemes, housing, employment, carer and user groups, advocacy and patient's councils | £295,582
<strong>Mind Wise New Vision</strong> [Charity number: [NI103469](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103469)]<br>MindWise is one of Northern Ireland’s leading mental health charities delivering over 30 key services run by 110 professional staff and 108 volunteers. With the backing of our 330 members we raise awareness and help more than 1,000 people each day affected by mental health issues to tackle their problems. | £4,149,009
<strong>POINT ONE PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1194352](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194352)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE: -A. THE PRESERVATION, PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND WELL-BEING BY PROVIDING SUPPORT SERVICES, COUNSELLING, ADVICE AND/OR INFORMATION ABOUT MENTAL HEALTH AND/OR LIFE CRISIS MANAGEMENT IN WHATEVER FORM IS DEEMED MOST APPROPRIATE AT THAT TIME.B. THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH EDUCATION AND AWARENESS IN RELATION TO MENTAL HEALTH.C. TO SUPPORT AND PROMOTE MENTAL HEALTH THROUGH THE CREATION, ENJOYMENT, APPRECIATION AND UNDERSTANDING OF THE ARTS, CULTURE, HERITAGE AND ARTS.ALL FOCUSED ON, BUT NOT LIMITED TO THOSE WHO WORK IN OR ARE ASSOCIATED WITH THE MUSIC INDUSTRY INCLUDING THEIR DEPENDANTS. | 
<strong>DEVON BUSINESS & EDUCATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1191064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191064)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:(A) THE RELIEF OF UNEMPLOYMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC IN THE AREA OF BENEFIT IN SUCH WAYS AS MAY BE THOUGHT FIT, INCLUDING ASSISTANCE TO FIND EMPLOYMENT.(B) FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO PROMOTE THE EDUCATION OF PEOPLE IN THE AREA OF BENEFIT, IN SUCH WAYS AS THE CHARITY TRUSTEES THINK FIT, INCLUDING BY:(I)   FACILITATING WORKSHOPS, TUTORING, MENTORING AND OTHER EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT TO THOSE WITH ADDITIONAL EDUCATIONAL NEEDS WHICH THEY ARE OTHERWISE UNABLE TO ACCESS THROUGH THE MAINSTREAM EDUCATION SYSTEM, SO THAT THEY MAY GAIN THE SKILLS AND QUALIFICATIONS THEY NEED, WHERE THEIR EDUCATIONAL PROGRESS HAS BEEN ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY THE IMPACT OF THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC, RELATIONSHIP BREAKDOWN, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, BEREAVEMENT, OR WHERE THE PERSON HAS SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL NEEDS;(II)  FACILITATING THE PROVISION OF BUSINESS SKILLS TRAINING, COACHING, MENTORING AND OTHER EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT TO PEOPLE IN FINANCIAL HARDSHIP WHO WISH TO BECOME SELF-EMPLOYED AND/OR START A NEW BUSINESS, CO-OPERATIVE OR SOCIAL ENTERPRISE AS A MEANS OF RELIEVING THEIR NEEDS;(III)  ADVANCING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN RELATION TO ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY.(C) TO PROMOTE THE PRESERVATION OF MENTAL HEALTH AND TO ASSIST IN RELIEVING PERSONS SUFFERING FROM MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES OR CONDITIONS OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS IN THE AREA OF BENEFIT, IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) BY FACILITATING EDUCATION, SKILLS TRAINING, PRACTICAL ADVICE, THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES AND SUPPORT TO ENABLE THEM TO ACCESS OPPORTUNITIES AND ACTIVITIES DESIGNED TO HELP IMPROVE THEIR MENTAL HEALTH.(D) TO RELIEVE FAMILIES IN THE AREA OF BENEFIT WHO ARE IN CONDITIONS OF NEED, IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) BY FACILITATING THE PROVISION OF RELATIONSHIP GUIDANCE, COACHING OR MENTORING TO ADULTS AND/OR CHILDREN IN RELATION TO ANY ASPECT OF CONTEMPORARY LIFE OR WORK WHICH MAY PREJUDICE THEIR PRESENT OR FUTURE FAMILY RELATIONSHIP.(E) TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ÆSOCIALLY EXCLUDEDÆ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF BEING A MEMBER OF A SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DEPRIVED COMMUNITY AND/OR AS A RESULT OF ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY).(F) TO ADVANCE SUCH OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSES (ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES) AS THE CHARITY TRUSTEES SEE FIT FROM TIME TO TIME. | 
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £204,100,000
<strong>THE LEON & NAOMI BRENIG FAMILY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1100973](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100973)]<br>The Objective of the charity are the relief of poverty, mental & physical health preservation and others. The activity of the charity is to fulfil the charitys' objectives by obtaining share of profits from trustees and their families. | £100,578
<strong>PANDAS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1149485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149485)]<br>PANDAS is the leading UK charity in supporting familie suffering from pre (antenatal) and postnatal illnesses. PANDAS vision is to support every individual and their network,suffering with perinatal mental health illnesses. We campaign to raise awareness and remove the stigma. We provide our PANDAS Help Line, Support Groups, and online advice to all and much more. We operate in England and Wales. | £110,232
<strong>Knit-Up</strong> [Charity number: [SC046072](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046072)]<br>The advancement of education: Knit-Up will teach the craft of knitting, especially to the young and disadvantaged. Knitting has many health benefits, including confidence building, giving therapeutic and health to individuals who are prone to depression or are needing to work through personal issues and traumas. Knit-Up recognises the loneliness of the elderly both at home and in nursing homes. Knit-Up will work with families on projects to increase positive communication, family unity and harmony. The advancement of national heritage: Knitting was a very important source of income in the past and seeped in history and had an important story within many communities. | 
<strong>SUPPORTING WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV INFORMATION NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1189131](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189131)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:3.1 THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS AND THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV RESIDING PERMANENTLY OR TEMPORARILY IN THE UK AND IRELAND.3.2 TO ASSIST IN THE TREATMENT AND CARE OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV IN NEED OF HELP AS A RESULT OF SUCH ILLNESS, BY THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION, SUPPORT AND EVIDENCE BASED INTERVENTIONS.3.3. TO PROMOTE AND PROTECT THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV THROUGH THE PROVISION OF SUPPORT, EDUCATION AND PRACTICAL ADVICE.3.4 TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV REGARDING THEIR CONDITION AND THE EDUCATION OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC IN ALL AREAS RELATING TO HIV.3.5 TO RELIEVE SICKNESS, POOR HEALTH AND FRAILTY IN OLD AGE AMONG WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV BY PROVIDING EVIDENCE BASED EDUCATION FOR HOSPITALS, RESIDENTIAL HOMES AND SIMILAR INSTITUTIONS.3.6 TO RELIEVE SICKNESS AND TO PRESERVE THE HEALTH OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV BY CONDUCTING, FUNDING, SHARING AND PROMOTING RESEARCH IN THE FOLLOWING AREAS:3.6.1 MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING 3.6.2 GENDER BASED VIOLENCE3.6.3 DISCLOSURE3.6.4 ENGAGEMENT IN CARE3.6.5 CLINICAL MANAGEMENT3.6.6 PREVENTION3.6.7 ENGAGEMENT IN RESEARCH3.6.8 FERTILITY AND CONCEPTION3.6.9 MARGINALISED GROUPS3.7 TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT THE HEALTH OF WOMEN LIVING WITH HIV BY ADVANCING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN HEALTH CARE BY THE PROVISION OF LECTURES, FORA AND BY THE PUBLICATION OF REPORTS ON THE INTERNET, WEBSITES AND SOCIAL MEDIA DEVOTED TO HIV HEALTHCARE. | 
<strong>THE LAPID TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [328196](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328196)]<br>Overall vision of connectedness and challenging isolationSupporting organisations working in the following areas:1. Health, medicine and disability (particularly mental health and dementia)2. Helping people thrive in old age, and respite care3. The use of music and other arts in relation to above4. Building trust and friendship between communities5. Responsive relief in disaster zones | £61,906
