# Sickle Cell `HE213`

Sickle Cell is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

55 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.03% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(sickle cell)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 30 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 12 | 0.02%
£100k - £250k | 4 | 0.02%
£250k - £500k | 1 | 0.01%
£1m - £10m | 1 | 0.01%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 48 | 0.02%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 49 | 0.03%
oscr | 5 | 0.02%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 55 | 0.03%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SICKLE CELL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1046631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1046631)]<br>Information, counselling, caring and advocacy support for those with sickle cell disorders and their families. | £1,426,839
<strong>SICKLE CELL AND THALASSAEMIA SUPPORT PROJECT (WOLVERHAMPTON)</strong> [Charity number: [1077687](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077687)]<br>The prinicpal activities is to provide relief of sickness, distress and poverty and enhancement of life, of members of Afro-Caribbean and Asian Community affected by the disorders of Sickle Cell and Thalassaemia, within Wolverhampton and the surrounding areas.  Work with families identified by Staffordshire County Council through their 0-19 Family Support Service - offering support and guidance | £261,520
<strong>OSCAR BIRMINGHAM LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1109849](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109849)]<br>OSCAR Birmingham Ltd raises awareness of Sickle Cell and Thalassaemia, both red blood cell disorders and provides support and befriending services to those affected by these conditions. OSCAR educates, provide advocacy and raises awareness by organising community events, presentations in schools,colleges. We work with public and private agencies to further our work in uand around Birmingham | £247,731
<strong>PLASMA OF HOPE</strong> [Charity number: [1190846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190846)]<br>Plasma of Hope is a UK registered charity supporting individuals that are living with Sickle Cell Disease or other related illnesses. We advocate for people living with genetic blood disorders such as Sickle Cell and Thalassemia, and survivors of associated complications including stroke and other health issues resulting to disability. We also help their carers and those in their support network. | £227,355
<strong>RESCUE THE PERISHING</strong> [Charity number: [1181545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181545)]<br>We help children with health challenges . Example children suffering from sickle cell disease in ENGLNAD and Ghana. We also do educational programmes for children of school going age. | £153,030
<strong>LIONS INTERNATIONAL BLOOD RESEARCH APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [276685](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276685)]<br>To assist the haematology staff at Kings College Hospital with the provision of much needed laboratory equipment, particulary in the areas of Sickle Cell Disease and Thalassaemia. | £133,929
<strong>SICKLE CELL CARE MANCHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1162402](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162402)]<br>?SICKLE CELL CARE MANCHESTER WILL STRIVE TO SUPPORT PEOPLE DIAGNOSED WITH SICKLE CELL DISEASE (SCD), THEIR FAMILIES AND CARERS, IN ORDER TO EMPOWER AFFECTED INDIVIDUALS AND TO ENHANCE THEIR QUALITY OF LIFE. SICKLE CELL CARE MANCHESTER WILL ALSO WORK TO IMPROVE AWARENESS OF SCD,WE ALSO WISH TO IMPROVE KNOWLEDGE AND UNDERSTANDING OF SCD, AND TO FOSTER ACCEPTANCE OF THOSE LIVING WITH THE CONDITION.? | £86,341
<strong>CIANNA'S SMILE</strong> [Charity number: [1173030](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173030)]<br>Supporting families affected by Sickle cell in the Thames Valley area and raising awareness of Sickle Cell through our fundraising and awareness events. | £77,923
<strong>GREAT ANGELS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1172389](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172389)]<br>a) to promote the relief of children and young people with sickle cell disease and their families and carers, in particular but not exclusively by the provision of support, education and practical advice;b)to develop the capacity and skills of the members of the socially and economically disadvantaged community of Whythenshawein such a way that they are better able to identify, and help them | £40,661
<strong>MASH COMMUNITY SUPPORT NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1201765](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201765)]<br>To support families living with children and young people diagnosed with special needs such as autism, sickle cell and the like. | £31,750


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COMFORT CENTRE LEICESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1200042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200042)]<br>The charity provides support for those directly and indirectly affected by Sickle Cell and Thalassaemia in Leicester,Leicestershire and Rutland. This is achieved via a number of initiatives such as monthly coffee mornings, quarterly support group meetings, workshops, training days, research participation, educational forums, outreach, children-led initiatives and  bespoke client programmes | £30,704
<strong>Faith-Chat Platform Charity Initiative</strong> [Charity number: [SC054034](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054034)]<br>(i) Prevention or relief of poverty by providing support services, either directly or indirectly, to individuals in need, both in Scotland and overseas, in order to alleviate poverty by enabling them to generate a sustainable income and/or help them become self-sufficient, e.g., the homeless, unemployed, refugees, asylum seekers, and dependents of any of them.   (ii) Advancement of education, such as awarding scholarships, maintenance allowances, providing or assisting schools to provide facilities or equipment for education both in Scotland and overseas.  (iii) Advancement of religion, such as providing and supporting places of worship, raising awareness and understanding of religious beliefs and practices online and offline, both in Scotland and overseas.   (iv) Promoting and advocating for the overall health and well-being of individuals through facilitating treatment, care, and healing to prevent sickness, including sickle cell anaemia, mental health issues, disease, or suffering, as well as disaster relief both in Scotland and overseas.  (v) To advance environmental protection or improvement by including educational activities that raise awareness about environmental protection among minority communities, encouraging sustainable practices. | 
<strong>ACADEMY FOR SICKLE CELL  AND THALASSAEMIA (ASCAT) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1204063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204063)]<br>Academy for Sickle Cell & ThalassaemiaAnnual ASCAT ConferenceFundraising for Sickle Cell & Thalassaemia Sickle Cell Awareness & Support in Nigeria, Lebanon & Egypt. | 
<strong>HUDDERSFIELD SICKLE CELL SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [517508](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517508)]<br>To support Sickle Cell Anaemia sufferers and their families by providing information, advice and counsellingTo increase awareness and knowledge of Sickle Cell Anaemia disease amongst health professionals, adminstrators, carers, employers, community groups and the general publicOrganise seminars/conferences | 
<strong>SARAI'S LIGHT FOUNDATION (SLF)</strong> [Charity number: [1217768](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1217768)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:1. TO ADVANCE HEALTH AND SAVE LIVES BY FUNDING, SUPPORTING, AND PROMOTING RESEARCH INTO RENAL MEDULLARY CARCINOMA (RMC) AND CONDITIONS RELATED TO THE SICKLE CELL TRAIT, INCLUDING THEIR CAUSES, PREVENTION, AND TREATMENT, AND BY PUBLISHING AND DISSEMINATING THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH RESEARCH.2. TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND PROMOTE AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING OF RMC, THE SICKLE CELL TRAIT, AND RELATED HEALTH CONDITIONS AMONG MEDICAL PROFESSIONALS, PATIENTS, AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC, IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) BY PROVIDING INFORMATION, RAISING AWARENESS, AND ORGANISING CAMPAIGNS AND EVENTS.3. TO RELIEVE SICKNESS AND PRESERVE HEALTH AMONG INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES AFFECTED BY RMC AND RELATED CONDITIONS, IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) BY OFFERING EMOTIONAL SUPPORT, FACILITATING PEER CONNECTION, AND PROVIDING SIGNPOSTING TO APPROPRIATE SERVICES AND RESOURCES. | 
<strong>GREAT ANGELS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1172389](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172389)]<br>a) to promote the relief of children and young people with sickle cell disease and their families and carers, in particular but not exclusively by the provision of support, education and practical advice;b)to develop the capacity and skills of the members of the socially and economically disadvantaged community of Whythenshawein such a way that they are better able to identify, and help them | £40,661
<strong>CIANNA'S SMILE</strong> [Charity number: [1173030](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173030)]<br>Supporting families affected by Sickle cell in the Thames Valley area and raising awareness of Sickle Cell through our fundraising and awareness events. | £77,923
<strong>Tropika Life Support Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC050511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050511)]<br>4 The Charitable organisation has been formed  to improve medical skills  and equipment training & medical services delivery for BAME communities in Scotland and also Ghana, for healthcare workers and people who are socially excluded from access to such skills and services due to financial hardship, unemployment, race, or ethnic origin with the following: 4.1 To relieve physical and mental sickness of people in need by reason of their vulnerability to certain types of disease in particular (e.g. Covid-19, Sickle cell anaemia, Hypertension, Diabetes, Asthma, Stroke) by the provision of information leaflets, counselling and support. 4.2 To advance education by way of training programmes, events and meetings and plan, implement and monitor healthcare training overall. 4.3 To work closely with healthcare institutions in Ghana through the supplementation and enhancement of these institution's policies, procedures & programmes and also work with other organisations and local communities in Scotland and Africa that provide similar services to ensure best practice. 4.4 To provide or establish an effective and sustainable Emergency Medical Systems (EMS) in Ghana through training of healthcare professionals and lay staff in clinical and community care skills in order to promote community health and wellbeing overall. 4.5 To promote the use of up to date equipment by liaising with Scottish Health Board's to access decommissioned vital lifesaving and other medical equipment that allows clinicians and other healthcare professionals to deliver better care in health institutions in Ghana. 4.6 The outbreak of COVID-19 is a major public health emergency, therefore the Trust will identify strategies to reduce the spread of infectious diseases in Ghana, BAME communities in Scotland & West Africa and thereby ensure infection control, prevention and management.  4.7 To fund raise through grant applications and community events in Scotland in order to achieve the organisation's purposes.  4.8 The organisation will ensure that it meets its legal obligations in Ghana and Scotland. | 
<strong>URGENT MEDICARE INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1163759](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163759)]<br>1. THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS AND PRESERVATION OF HEALTH FOR PEOPLE IN SUB SAHARA AFRICA2. SUPPORT AND CARE FOR PERSONS SUFFERING FROM MENTAL OR PHYSICAL ILLNESSES.3. SUPPORTING NON-CLINICAL RESEARCHES, INFORMATION  DISSEMINATION AND DATA COLLATION.5. CREATING PUBLIC AWARENESS ON THE MANAGEMENT OF VIRUSES, MALARIA, DIABETES, SICKLE CELL & CLINICAL EMERGENCY HEALTHCARE. | £600
<strong>HOPE FOR SICKLE CELL</strong> [Charity number: [1216846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1216846)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF THOSE AFFECTED BY SICKLE CELL DISEASE AND THE RELIEF OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP ARISING FROM SUCH A CONDITION IN ENGLAND, PRIMARILY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH: A) ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF EQUIPMENT/ITEMS NOT NORMALLY PROVIDED BY THE STATUTORY AUTHORITIES, NUTRITIONAL FOOD ITEMS, HYGIENE PRODUCTS, CLOTHING AND FOOD VOUCHERS TO MEET THEIR BASIC NEEDS;B) ASSISTANCE WITH TRAVELLING EXPENSES ASSOCIATED WITH THEIR ILLNESS AND OTHER LIVING EXPENSES WHEN REQUIRED TO MEET THEIR BASIC NEEDS;C) SUCH OTHER WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES MAY DETERMINE. | 
