# Visual impairment `HE215`

Visual impairment is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

1,067 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.53% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(blind(ness)?|sensory (disabilit(y|ies)|impairments?)|braille|deafblind|(eye(sight)?) (care|clinics?|health|problems?)+|sight loss|talking newspaper|(visual(ly)?) impair(ed|ment))\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`\b(lions club)\b`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 529 | 0.72%
£10k - £100k | 228 | 0.33%
£100k - £250k | 79 | 0.37%
£250k - £500k | 64 | 0.62%
£1m - £10m | 59 | 0.67%
£500k - £1m | 48 | 0.75%
Over £10m | 22 | 1.03%
Total | 1,029 | 0.54%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 861 | 0.50%
oscr | 166 | 0.67%
ccni | 40 | 0.56%
Total | 1,067 | 0.53%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind</strong> [Charity number: [SC038110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038110)]<br>'	To take or promote measures for the prevention and cure of blindness in the countries and territories specified under article 4 of this our charter and for the education, rehabilitation, training and employment of the blind in those countries and territories and '	To foster collaboration among organisations concerned with blindness and its prevention and to promote and where appropriate, to participate in national, regional and international activities likely to prevent blindness and benefit the blind in any part of the world. | £338,159,000
<strong>ROYAL COMMONWEALTH SOCIETY FOR THE BLIND</strong> [Charity number: [207544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207544)]<br>Seventy five per cent of blindness in the world is either avoidable or treatable. Sightsavers works with partners in developing countries to eliminate avoidable blindness and promote equality of opportunity for disabled people. Our work alleviates poverty among poor and marginalised communities and thus helps to realise the internationally accepted Millenium Development Goals. | £337,945,000
<strong>The Guide Dogs For The Blind Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC038979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038979)]<br>The Objects for which the Association is established are to promote the health, equality and independence of blind and partially sighted people by: 1. Providing guide dogs for blind and partially sighted people.. 2. Training and educating blind and partially sighted people in the use of such guide dogs. 3. The relief, prevention and cure of vision impairment.  4. Providing such services, facilities and activities for the benefit of blind and partially sighted people as the Association shall from time to time deem fit | £144,698,875
<strong>THE GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [209617](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209617)]<br>The Association provides guide dogs, mobility and other rehabilitation services to people who are blind and partially sighted. In accordance with its constitution, it provides "additional services and facilities for the relief of blind persons as the Association shall from time to time deem fit". | £144,698,875
<strong>SENSE, THE NATIONAL DEAFBLIND AND RUBELLA ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [289868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289868)]<br>Sense exists so that no one who is deafblind or has other complex disabilities is isolated, left out, or unable to fulfil their potential. Across the country, we support children and adults to communicate and experience the world. We provide information and advice, offer a wide range of flexible services and campaign for the rights of people with complex disabilities to take part in life. | £94,976,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF BLIND PEOPLE</strong> [Charity number: [226227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226227)]<br>RNIB is the UK's leading charity offering information, support and advice to over two million people with sight problems. Our work helps anyone with a sight problem - with braille, Talking Books, education and imaginative and practical solutions to everyday challenges.  We fight for equal rights for people with sight problems. Contact the Helpline on 0303 123 9999 or visit www.rnib.org.uk | £89,683,000
<strong>Royal National Institute of Blind People</strong> [Charity number: [SC039316](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039316)]<br>The objects for which the Institute is established and incorporated are to promote the better education, training, employment and welfare of Blind and partially sighted people, and generally to watch over and protect the interests of Blind and partially sighted people and to prevent blindness. | £89,683,000
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £73,334,000
<strong>ENABLE Communities Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC049060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049060)]<br>4.1 The objects of the Company are (i) the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability or other disadvantage. (ii) the advancement of health. and (iii) the advancement of citizenship and community development through the promotion of the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. and in furtherance of those objects but not otherwise:-  (a)   to support and promote the interests and welfare of people with learning disabilities or communication difficulties, physical disabilities, hearing and visual impairment, or other illness and disability, including working to meet their needs, development their capabilities and enable and encourage them to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives.  (b)  to promote mutual help, support, co-operation and understanding  amongst people with all forms of illness and disability, and their relatives and friends and those providing services to them.  (c)   to promote and encourage the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people with all forms of illness and disability, their families and carers including the provision of special forms of housing and residential care and support to beneficiaries (in particular amongst those who have more profound disabilities).  (d)   to encourage research into the causes, treatment and management of all kinds of illness and disability and to disseminate the useful results of such research. (e)  to provide support and companionship to enable beneficiaries to pursue their interests and take part in leisure activities.  (f)  to create and deliver personalised, community based support to adults and children.    | £63,144,946
<strong>THE ROYAL SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND</strong> [Charity number: [255913](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-255913)]<br>SeeAbility provides specialist support, accommodation and eye care help for people with learning disabilities, autism and sight loss. Our vision is for inclusive communities where people with sight loss, autism, and learning disabilities participate as equal citizens and realise their goals each and every day. | £32,809,262


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Cedar Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [NI101121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101121)]<br>We work with service users to offer person centred assistance and support with careers advice, educational opportunities and work experience. We work with employers to seek job opportunities and provide on-going advice and assistance to support the needs of both the service user and their employer so that they can work independently. The Outlook Service allows children and young people to engage in social and recreational activities of their choice outside of their family environment. The Transitions Service is an early intervention service to enable young people to make appropriate choices when moving on from school to Further or Higher Education, training or employment. The Youth Matters Service provides social activities and personal development programmes for young people with disabilities up to 18 years old. Right 4 U offers children and young people who have ASD a made to measure service that makes it possible for them to get out of the house and into their community. We provide a range of Living Options designed to meet the needs of people who have brain injury, physical disability and sensory impairment and for people with learning disabilities. Our Supported Living Service provides independent apartments or bungalows to people with different levels of housing support and care needs. Our Housing Support Service provides support to adults in their own homes and our Floating Support team assists adults living in their own home to carry out their housing responsibilities independently by tailoring a programme to suit their individual needs. We provide 24-hour care in our Residential Services. We provide a range of Social and Community Network programmes to promote peer support and participation in the community | £19,894,104
<strong>EASTBOURNE BLIND SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [219818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219818)]<br>Advice/support for visually impaired people in Eastbourne and environs. Contract with ESCC. Close community working. Low Vision Support Worker encouraging confidence and independence. Home visiting. Wide range of social activities. Demonstration and sales of low vision aids and equipment. Vision awareness advice/training. Rehabilitation modules. Audio Books library. Volunteering opportunities. | £810,000
<strong>THE DAN MASKELL TENNIS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1133589](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133589)]<br>The Dan Maskell Tennis Trust uses funds raised to give grants to support disabled tennis. Individuals, groups, special schools, disability programmes and tennis clubs may apply for financial help for specialist equipment such as tennis wheelchairs, special sound balls for visually impaired tennis, general tennis equipment, court hire and coaching fees and tennis coaching qualifications. | £126,362
<strong>LEICESTER DEAF ACTION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1162304](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162304)]<br>To relieve the needs of Deaf, Deafened, Deaf-Blind , Hard of Hearing people in Leicester and the surrounding areas, in particular by the provision by the support services, advice and education. in furtherance of the object LDAG promotes independence and supports Deaf, Deafened, Deaf-Blind and Hard of Hearing people to participate fully in society . | £9,197
<strong>COVENTRY VISUALLY IMPAIRED AND SIGHTED TANDEM ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1133237](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133237)]<br>Promoting social interaction of visually impaired and sighted people through physical or mental recreation, including, but not by way of limitation, tandem bicycle riding. | £3,615
<strong>Renfrewshire Visual Impaired Forum</strong> [Charity number: [SC028434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028434)]<br>The objects of the FORUM will be to promote the benefit of all disabled people with a severe visual impairment who are inhabitants of Renfrewshire District without distinction of political, religious, or other opinions, by associating with statutory, voluntary and other organisations, and inhabitants in a common effort to advance education and to ensure the full and equal participation of the said inhabitants of all walks of life, and to provide facilities in the interest of improving for the said inhabitants. To obtain, collect and receive money and funds by way of contributions, Donations, Legacies, grants and any other lawful method and to affiliate to, or to accept affiliation from, any body having objects similar to those of the FORUM, and where such bodies are governed in totality by disabled people. Render administration and financial services to other local groups having similar objects, and arrange and provide for, or join in the arranging and providing for or join in the holding of exhibitions, meetings, lectures and courses. | £100
<strong>BLIND AND SIGHT IMPAIRED SOCIETY (BASIS)</strong> [Charity number: [1188583](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188583)]<br>BASIS provides emotional and practical support to visually impaired people in South Essex. We do this through equipment demonstration at our Resource Centre, home visit assessments, befriending services, social activity groups and providing support at the local eye clinic. | £127,956
<strong>CALDERDALE TALKING NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [512611](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-512611)]<br>We produce a weekly edition of local news and features, and a bimonthly magazine  that are sent,free of charge, with a listening device, to visually handicapped people. We record on memory sticks which are mailed in a free Royal Mail package. | £2,935
<strong>THE DASHWOOD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1192982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192982)]<br>The charity is established for the public benefit to make grants to (1) The Royal National Lifeboat Institution (209603), (2) Blind Veterans UK (216227), (3) Dame Agnes Weston's Royal Charity for the Naval Service (1176596), and (4) Royal Hospital Chelsea Appeal Ltd (1076414) (or such other names as those charities may from time to time be known) and/or such other beneficiaries from time to time. | 
<strong>THE JACK CHARLTON DISABLED ANGLERS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1159744](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159744)]<br>the group exists to provide & manage 3 angling events for the disabled ages from 7/77 each event is well supported by members Carers volunteers. These individuals are all registered disabled wheelchairs users, visual impairment and /or learning difficulties. The ethos of the group is one of friendship and social inclusion and promotes well-being & increases self-esteem amongst the disabled people. | £1,594
