# Multiple Sclerosis `HE212`

Multiple Sclerosis is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

143 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(Multiple Sclerosis)|\b(ms)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 34 | 0.05%
£10k - £100k | 53 | 0.08%
£100k - £250k | 23 | 0.10%
£250k - £500k | 14 | 0.13%
£500k - £1m | 7 | 0.10%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.09%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.09%
Total | 141 | 0.07%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 109 | 0.06%
oscr | 26 | 0.11%
ccni | 8 | 0.11%
Total | 143 | 0.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1139257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139257)]<br>The MS Society (formerly charity no.207495) funds and promotes research to develop new treatments and services for people with MS and to understand the causes of MS. We provide support to people affected by MS, and seek to raise awareness, understanding, and improve care and support for all people living with MS. We operate across England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales. | £29,776,000
<strong>Multiple Sclerosis Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC041990](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041990)]<br>The Charity's objects are specifically restricted to the following: (1) To support and relieve people affected by multiple sclerosis. (2) To encourage people affected by multiple sclerosis to attain their full potential as members of society by improving their conditions of life. (3) To promote research into multiple sclerosis and allied conditions and to publish the results. | £29,776,000
<strong>MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1088353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088353)]<br>The Multiple Sclerosis Trust is a UK charity for people with MS, their friends, families and carers and for the health and social care professionals who work with them.  Our activities include the provision of information and professional education, funding for practical research and campaigning for the improvement of MS services. | £2,426,192
<strong>MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS INTERNATIONAL FEDERATION</strong> [Charity number: [1105321](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1105321)]<br>The MS International Federation is a global network of organisations. We collaborate to improve the quality of life of people affected by MS and work for: better scientific understanding and development of treatments; improved access to treatment and to trustworthy information; better policies and practices; a strong MS movement, including in countries with challenging socio-economic conditions. | £1,800,712
<strong>EAST CLEVELAND M S HOME</strong> [Charity number: [519232](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519232)]<br>A care home whose object is to bring relief to the sufferers of Multiple Sclerosis and other diseases of the central nervous system | £1,568,188
<strong>Chilterns Neuro Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [800853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-800853)]<br>The charity provides a range of symptom management therapies and treatments to support people who have been diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Stroke survivors to give them better control over their lives.  It also aims to provide direct care, support and counselling for patients, their carers and families, all conducted in a welcoming inclusive environment | £1,421,103
<strong>Overcoming Multiple Sclerosis</strong> [Charity number: [SC050752](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050752)]<br>The charity’s objects (Objects) are specifically restricted to the following: To relieve people with multiple sclerosis and to promote public health in relation to multiple sclerosis in particular but not exclusively by:  a) Providing information and advice for people with multiple sclerosis to take care of their health  b) Fostering a community of support for people with multiple sclerosis and their families  c) Promoting a holistic approach to multiple sclerosis taking account of people’s psychological, physical and social need and utilising the best available treatments d) Promoting and undertaking research into self-help techniques for the management of multiple sclerosis insofar as these are compatible with the advice received from people’s doctors on consultant physician  e) Supporting and promoting charities funding multiple sclerosis research | £1,204,378
<strong>OVERCOMING MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS</strong> [Charity number: [1157579](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1157579)]<br>Overcoming Multiple Sclerosis promotes a program of diet and lifestyle management that has been shown to improve the health and lives of people with MS. Prof. George Jelinek, who was diagnosed with MS in 1999, developed the rigorously researched OMS Recovery Program more than 15 years ago.Overcoming MS (OMS) was established in the UK in 2012 with the goal of expanding awareness of the program. | £1,204,378
<strong>Merlin Neuro Therapy Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [1093691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093691)]<br>A centre of excellence in Cornwall providing a range of expert care,support and therapies for those living with Multiple Sclerosis and other neurological conditions;and for their families and their friends | £1,113,486
<strong>SHIFT.MS</strong> [Charity number: [1117194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117194)]<br>Shift.ms is a user-led social network - www.shift.ms - for people with Multiple Sclerosis (known as MSers), particularly the recently diagnosed. Shift.ms aims to create a positive, enabling community for MSers which empowers them to acknowledge their MS, rethink how to achieve their ambitions and get on with their lives. | £1,081,155


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SWINDON THERAPY CENTRE FOR MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS</strong> [Charity number: [1047353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1047353)]<br>An inclusive charity dedicated to helping people lead happy, healthy, independent lives. Primarily known for supporting those with neurological conditions, some therapies help other conditions too. The Centre provides practical therapies, including hyperbaric oxygen, physio-led gym, exercise, yoga, pilates and tai chi classes, counselling and social activities. | £217,108
<strong>BRACKEN TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1059668](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1059668)]<br>A day centre offering support for people affected by cancer and other long-term illnesses (mainly MS). Main area served is Powys and Mid Wales | £249,880
<strong>Karma</strong> [Charity number: [NI103407](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103407)]<br>We are conducting Indian classical dance training by Ms Bijini Jayaprakash who is a brilliant exponent of this and other Indian classical dance forms.Currently the classes are being conducted at Craigavon HUB, Island Art Centre and In Spectrum centre, Shankill Road, Belfast.She also conducting different workshops for many communities and helping various organisations to conduct cultural events across N.Ireland. One of the major objectives of the karma festival is to give ample opportunity for our students to display their skills in stage and bring out best from them by building confidence and giving aspiring performers the opportunity of a lifetime.It also gives them an opening to interact with different people in our community along with an understanding of classical dance forms around the world.Also the trained students from Karma now are performing for different organizations throughout NI. The audience of around 400 guests for the Karma festival consists of the broad spectrum of our society and the event given them a new visual experience.This was acknowledged by many especially reflected in the comment by Mr Chile Campbell that the fest has brought in a new face of Indian culture to NI society. Planning to organise more multicultural events focusing on our theme of social integration Starting Indian classical music classes from next month onwards Start supplementary educational classes for South Indian languages.Planning different workshops focusing on South Indian Dance,Music, art and culture to widen our existing network of artist from all back grounds.We are currently in the process of affiliating our dance courses with ISTD(The Imperial Society of Teachers of Dancing) which is one of the world’s leading dance examination boards who provide training for dance teachers and examiners for more than 100 years. This we believe will help the awards conferred to our students will align with international benchmark and professional standard of the art form. | £15,314
<strong>ESKDALE MILL & HERITAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1113837](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113837)]<br>The Trust owns the listed grade 2* Eskdale Mill at Boot in Eskdale, the last working water corn mill in the Lake District National Park. The Mill is open to the public at least 5 days a week from April to end of October, and at other times by contact with the Mill Manager, Ms Kate Hughes | £56,942
<strong>LINCOLNSHIRE MS THERAPY CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [701839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701839)]<br>Charity provides help and support for those with Multiple Sclerosis. Providing High Dosage Oxygen Therapy, Physiotherapy and Reflexology. The Centre also has a snack bar. | £63,647
<strong>LODGE MOORS COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [510290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510290)]<br>Luncheon Club , Indoor Bowls, Bingo,  Drama Club,  Keep Fit, Townswomen's Guild and Disabled Group, keep fit, Wood turners , Mini pamper sessions, Auction, MS Society, Street Sports (during winter months). | £1,275
<strong>Oxygen Oban Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC016889](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016889)]<br>To aid and improve for the public benefit in the Area of Benefit the condition of those suffering from muiltiple sclerosis by any lawful means including any of the following means:- (a) by bringing together persons suffering from multiple sclerosis and persons interested in multiple sclerosis. (b) by providing advice guidance and moral and practical support for persons suffering from multiple sclerosis. (c) by providing therapy (including hyperbaric oxygen therapy) for persons suffering from multiple sclerosis or other symptoms or conditions in accordance with the protocols and guidelines of the Principal Company and with the prior written concent of the Principal Company. | £52,835
<strong>BARRETT JENKINS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1128163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128163)]<br>The Trustees have concentrated on making grants to small local charities in Southwold and East Suffolk.  The Trustees are also interested in making grants to organisations that provide relief to multiple sclerosis sufferers. | £10,446
<strong>HERTFORDSHIRE MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS THERAPY CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [299524](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299524)]<br>Provides therapies, support and advice to people anywhere in England, especially in Hertfordshire and surrounding counties, affected by Multiple Sclerosis or any other Neurological Condition or other symptoms or conditions. Therapies include Physiotherapy, Exercise, Hyperbaric Oxygen Therapy, Counselling, Massage, Yoga and Dietary advice. | £96,022
<strong>The Neuro Therapy Place</strong> [Charity number: [SC014991](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC014991)]<br>To aid and improve for the public benefit in the Area of Benefit the condition of those suffering from long-term neurological conditions, including multiple sclerosis, their families and carers, as well as people living with other long or short term health conditions by any lawful means including any of the following means:  i. To deliver co-ordinated, holistic and person-centred therapies, support and advice services to people living with long-term neurological conditions and their families / carers assisting them in addressing the physical, psychological and emotional issues affecting them.  ii. To work with, and for, people living with long-term neurological conditions actively engaging them in decisions that affect their lives with due regard to respect and choice, to develop social, mental and emotional confidence that empowers them to make informed choices about all aspects of their lives.  iii. To improve physical, mental, emotional and social health and well being of people living with long-term neurological conditions and their families / carers to achieve their potential, and ensuring that they have the confidence and capacity to be active members and contributors in their local communities and civil society.  iv. To offer therapies to people living with other long or short term health conditions where it is shown they may benefit from these and where there is sufficient capacity available. | £273,199
