# Strokes `HE214`

Strokes is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

221 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(strokes?|aneurysm|transient ischemic attack)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 101 | 0.13%
£10k - £100k | 66 | 0.10%
£100k - £250k | 17 | 0.08%
£250k - £500k | 7 | 0.07%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.16%
£1m - £10m | 6 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.20%
Total | 211 | 0.11%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 188 | 0.11%
ccni | 19 | 0.26%
oscr | 14 | 0.06%
Total | 221 | 0.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE FRANCIS CRICK INSTITUTE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140062)]<br>The Francis Crick Institute is dedicated to understanding the fundamental biology underlying health and disease. Our work is helping to understand why disease develops and to translate discoveries into new ways to prevent, diagnose and treat illnesses such as cancer, heart disease, stroke, infections and neurodegenerative diseases. | £213,189,000
<strong>Stroke Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC037789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037789)]<br>(A) working for the prevention of stroke. (B) educating the public in all matters concerning stroke. (C) carrying out, promoting or sponsoring research into the prevention or treatment of stroke or other conditions where the effects are similar to stroke, the rehabilitation and long-term care of stroke survivors and publishing the useful results of such research. and (D) responding to the needs caused by the effects of stroke, or other conditions where the effects are similar to stroke, by providing advice and support to those affected, their families and carers. | £40,681,000
<strong>STROKE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [211015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211015)]<br>THE CHARITY OPERATES THROUGHOUT THE UK. WE PROVIDE SUPPORT SERVICES TO EVERYONEAFFECTED BY STROKE, INCLUDING FAMILIES AND CARERS. WE RAISE AWARENESS OF STROKE AND CAMPAIGN FOR BETTER EMERGENCY, REHABILITATION AND SUPPORT SERVICES. WE INVEST IN STROKE RESEARCH TO HELP REDUCE THE INCIDENCE OF STROKE, TO FIND THE BEST TREATMENT AND LONG TERM CARE AND IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR STROKE SURVIVORS. | £40,421,000
<strong>Chest Heart & Stroke Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC018761](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018761)]<br>The objects of the Charity are:  3.1 The advancement of health through improving the quality of life for people in Scotland, and elsewhere, affected by chest, heart and stroke Conditions, through medical research, influencing public policy, education, advice & training and provision of healthcare and other support services.  3.2 To engage in and to undertake all other similar charitable purposes.  | £11,084,093
<strong>Northern Ireland Chest Heart & Stroke</strong> [Charity number: [NI103593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103593)]<br>Our vision for Northern Ireland is one where everyone can live life to the full, free from chest, heart and stroke illnesses. To achieve this, our work is focused in these areas: Care Services Support Groups provide a listening ear, emotional support and practical advice or signposting to people and their families and carers affected by chest, heart and stroke conditions. The groups enable people to meet with others in a similar situation, while benefiting from various activities based around continuing rehabilitation, prevention of a reoccurrence and reducing isolation. Our Post Rehabilitation Exercise Programme (PREP) provides a structured exercise and information programme, designed to help rebuild people’s lives and confidence following a stroke. Our “Taking Control” Self Management Programme is designed to help people with long term health conditions take control of their lives and develop the skills and confidence they need to manage their condition more effectively. Prevention We offer a comprehensive healthy schools programme that aims to influence young people’s lifestyle behaviours at an early age, with the hope of a knock on effect on their family and wider community. We help homeless people, who are particularly vulnerable to these illnesses through our Health and Homeless projects, which focus on diet choices and healthier lifestyles. Our health promotion services include health information, talks and nurse health checks in the workplace and in the community which enable people to make informed choices and adopt healthier lifestyles in order to reduce their risk of developing chest, heart and stroke illnesses. We are committed to funding research into the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care of chest, heart and stroke illnesses in Northern Ireland’s hospitals and universities which will benefit the people of Northern Ireland. We campaign at Assembly level on behalf of people and families impacted by chest, heart and stroke illnesses. | £4,091,115
<strong>PACES SHEFFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [1104356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104356)]<br>For disabled children and adults:  Conductive Education programme through- Approved independent special school: 4 to 18 years- Parent & Child groups- Adult services- Stroke (rehabilitation) Group- Family Support | £3,147,160
<strong>MANOR GARDENS WELFARE TRUST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1063053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1063053)]<br>To provide a range of accessible health and welfare services which improve the quality of life of local people. The Charity accomplishes this by running services including a Pre-school, Friendship Network, Health Advocacy Projects, a Community Stroke Service and a Mental Wellbeing Project. The Charity provides office and activity space for other local not-for profit organisations. | £1,964,372
<strong>THE BRAIN CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1114999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1114999)]<br>The Brain Charity offers emotional support, practical help and social activities to anyone with a neurological condition and to their family, friends, and carers. There are hundreds of different neurological conditions, including stroke, brain injury, dementia, cluster headaches, and many rarer ones too. We are here for every single one. | £1,632,677
<strong>AGE UK GATESHEAD LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [702561](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702561)]<br>Our staff and  volunteers together deliver services and activities for people aged over 50 in Gateshead & Newcastle.We are driven by the needs & aspirations of people in later life & our mission is to improve the lives of older people.Our vision is that all older people flourish. We provide Benefits Advice, Advocacy, Dementia Care, Social Groups, Befriending, Frailty, Falls, Stroke Services, | £1,176,989
<strong>Chilterns Neuro Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [800853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-800853)]<br>The charity provides a range of symptom management therapies and treatments to support people who have been diagnosed with Multiple Sclerosis (MS), Parkinson's Disease (PD) and Stroke survivors to give them better control over their lives.  It also aims to provide direct care, support and counselling for patients, their carers and families, all conducted in a welcoming inclusive environment | £1,045,445


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COUNTRYMEN UK</strong> [Charity number: [1184921](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184921)]<br>Countrymen UK use the farm and countryside environments help to meet the challenges being faced by men who find themselves isolated because of deteriorating physical or mental health or changing social circumstances. Conditions may include: Dementia, Parkinsons, Stroke, Isolation, Injuries, Anxiety, Depression, Post Traumatic Stress, Chronic Pain, Cancer, Heart & Lung Conditions and others. | £56,059
<strong>GLOBAL REHABILITATION</strong> [Charity number: [1178992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178992)]<br>Charity works in the area of Training, research and development of  rehabilitation services in Madagascar.  This improves the medical care of people with long term neurological conditions such as stroke, spinal cord injuries, amputee rehabilitation etc. The charity also envisages to run a diploma program in rehabilitation medicine in collaboration in Antananarivo University. | £3,236
<strong>THE SOUTHEND-ON-SEA STROKE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [281750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281750)]<br>Provide support, friendship and comfort by way of social activities for people who have suffered a stroke or strokes within the area of the Borough of Southend-on-Sea. | £729
<strong>BRAINWAVE: MOVING WITH MOVEMENT DISORDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1198703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198703)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE CIO IS THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED DUE TO ILL HEALTH VIA THE PROVISION OF PHYSICAL THERAPY AND REHABILITATION CARE FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH MOTOR DISEASES SUCH AS PARKINSON?S, STROKE, MS & HUNTINGTON?S. IT WILL ALSO DONATE TO RESEARCH IN THIS FIELD WHEN IT DEEMS THE RESEARCH CLINICALLY RELEVANT AND APPLICABLE. NOTHING IN THIS CONSTITUTION SHALL AUTHORISE AN APPLICATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE CIO FOR THE PURPOSES WHICH ARE NOT CHARITABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH SECTION 7 OF THE CHARITIES AND TRUSTEE INVESTMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT 2005 AND SECTION 2 OF THE CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008. | 
<strong>LIONS CLUB OF LEEK (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1185466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185466)]<br>As well as providing grants to deserving causes within our community and the Lions District and Multiple District the Lions Club of Leek undertake a number of community service projects :-Christmas lunch for members of the Leek Stroke Club, Spectacle Recycling. Message in a Bottle, Message in a Wallet, In Case of Emergency Labels and Santa Duties | £1,357
<strong>MANSFIELD AND DISTRICT STROKE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [510409](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510409)]<br>We are a self supporting, self help group. We collect our members for monthly meetings and provide a social meeting with games and refreshments. We also organise one day outings and five day holidays. The group activities are organised by the treasurer and chairman. | £6,379
<strong>STROKE SURVIVORS SPEECH & LANGUAGE SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1209208](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209208)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF THOSE WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED A STROKE, THEIR FAMILIES, PRIMARILY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THROUGH SOCIAL INTERACTION, PEER SUPPORT, PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES AND MENTAL WELL-BEING GROUPS TO HELP DEVELOP AND SUPPORT THEM WITH SPEECH, LANGUAGE AND COMMUNICATION DIFFICULTIES AND GAIN CONFIDENCE. | 
<strong>ASHBOURNE AND DISTRICT STROKE SUPPORT CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1088431](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088431)]<br>Ashbourne & District Stroke Support Club offers invaluable support to stroke victims & their carers. The club helps people during the recovery period and through the following months and years. | £653
<strong>Ballinamallard Support Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI103230](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103230)]<br>The Support Group provide for the public benefit of all people in need such as the Fermanagh Stroke Association who visit the facility and have access to exercise equipment supervised by physios endeavouring to improve the health of stroke victims. Our aim is to also provide them with an adequate meeting place so they can discuss their needs and act upon them. Provision is made for talks on Stroke Awareness, defibrillator courses etc. which any member of the public can attend. They have access to kitchen facilities and disabled toilets. The Mallard Flyers Cycling Club use the premises every weekend. They are a cross community cycle group set up for the advancement of fitness and is open to all ages, gender and especially people new to cycling so as to introduce them to cycling skills, how to improve on their fitness, stamina and well-being. The development of skills programmes that aim to educate cyclists about cycling and enhancing what they get out of sport. It is mainly leisure rides but some members take it more seriously than others and take part in the various endurance events held around the Country which raises thousands of pounds for health and medical charities. Various courses take place such as bike maintenance, First Aid courses etc. The Taylor Exercise Group use our facilities every Monday night. They provide for a group of local ladies to keep fit. This is a cross community ladies group of varying age and levels of fitness and most of them originally started off as beginners. They have the use of a small gym and are coached and advised by qualified staff. The objective is to improve the fitness, health and well-being of ladies in the community. A further group known as the Leonard Exercise Group use the facilities every Wednesday night. They are a cross community group of ladies mainly an aerobics group varying in all ages under qualified supervision promoting fitness and well-being thereby improving the health of the ladies in the community. | £7,827
<strong>The Right Honourable Lord Clarke's Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042219](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042219)]<br>(a) for the establishment and operation of scholarships specifically for graduates meeting the following criteria:- (i) they have previously graduated from a Scottish University. (ii) they have been accepted to study Law as a second degree at the University of Glasgow. (iii) they can show a financial need. and (iv) they have a proven record of academic excellence. (b) the advancement of the Arts. (c) the advancement of medical research. (d) the prevention or relief of poverty. (e) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (f) the advancement of the following charitable organisations: (i) the Edinburgh International Festival (Scottish Charity Number SC004694), The Hub, Castlehill, Edinburgh EH1 2NE. (ii) the Marie Curie Cancer Care (Scottish Charity Number: SC038731) 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7TP. (iii) the Help the Hospices (Scottish Charity Number: SC041112) 34-44 Brittania Street, London WC1X 9JG. (iv) the Stroke Association (Scottish Charity Number: SC037789) Stroke House, 240 City Road, London EC1V 2PR. (v) the Scottish Opera (Scottish Charity Number: SC019787) 39 Elmbank Crescent, Glasgow G2 4PT. (vi) the Scottish Catholic International Aid Fund (Scottish Charity Number: SC012302) 19 Waterloo Street, Glasgow G2 6AH. (vii) the Little Sisters of the Poor (Scottish Charity Number: SC008019) 43 Gilmore Place, Edinburgh EH3 9NG. (viii) the Royal Opera House (Charity Number: 211775) Covent Garden, London WC2E 9DD. and (ix) the University of Glasgow (Scottish Charity Number: SC004401) Directorate, Finance Office, Gilbert Scott Building, University Avenue, Glasgow G12 8QQ. and with a declaration that the Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund for such of the Charitable Purposes only as are within the meaning of charitable purposes in terms of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 as amended and superseded from time to time which are also regarded as charitable | £1,270
