# Motor Neurone Disease `HE211`

Motor Neurone Disease is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health condition subcategory.

27 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.01% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(motor neurone disease|mnd|ice bucket challenge|Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis|ALS|Lou Gehrig)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 8 | 0.01%
£10k - £100k | 5 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 3 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 0 | 0.00%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.04%
Total | 23 | 0.01%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 20 | 0.01%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 7 | 0.03%
Total | 27 | 0.01%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [294354](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294354)]<br>The MND Association is the only national charity in England, Wales and Northern Ireland dedicated to improving care and support for people affected by MND, funding and improving research, and campaigning and raising awareness so that the needs of people with MND are addressed by society. Visit www.mndassociation.org | £40,786,703
<strong>My Name'5 Doddie Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC047871](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047871)]<br>6.1 The SCIO shall hold the Trust Fund for Charitable Purposes exclusively. declaring without prejudice to the foregoing generality that the Trustees may apply the Trust Fund exclusively for any or all of the following Charitable Purposes namely:  6.1.1 the advancement of health, the saving of lives and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, as a result of Motor Neurone Disease.  6.1.2 for the purposes of benefitting the public and in particular, through education and medical research relating to Motor Neurone Disease.  6.1.3 financial support, for individuals or family members of individuals suffering from Motor Neurone Disease.  6.1.4 the advancement of health and the saving of lives, for individuals suffering from Motor Neurone Disease.  6.1.5 by developing and assisting the treatment of individuals suffering from Motor Neurone Disease.  6.1.6 for the benefit of such one or more Charity or Charities as the Trustees in their unfettered discretion may decide. or  6.1.7 for the implementation or assistance in implementing any Charitable Purpose or purposes as the Trustees in their unfettered discretion may decide.  | £6,863,137
<strong>MND Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002662](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002662)]<br>4.2.1 The relief of those in need by reason of ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage caused by Motor Neurone Disease by:- 4.2.1.1 The provision of care, support and practical assistance. 4.2.1.2 The provision of items, services and facilities which are calculated to relieve those impacted by Motor Neurone Disease, after appropriate health and/or social care consultation. 4.2.1.3 The provision of services and facilities which are calculated to provide support to the families and carers of those impacted by Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.1.4 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver appropriate improvements in related services 4.2.2 The advancement of health by:- 4.2.2.1 The development of services and facilities which are calculated to relieve suffering of people impacted by Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.2.2 The development of services and facilities which are calculated to provide support to the families and carers of people impacted by Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.2.3 The promotion and funding of appropriate research into the care, cause, treatment and possible prevention of Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.2.4 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver appropriate improvements in healthcare 4.2.3 The advancement of education by:- 4.2.3.1 The dissemination of the results of research into the care, cause, treatment and possible prevention of Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.2 The development of education services relating to Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.3 The promotion and funding of education services relating to Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.4 The promotion and funding of the development of research skills and capabilities relating to Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.3.5 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver improvements in awareness and understanding of Motor Neurone Disease  | £2,697,268
<strong>THE INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCE OF ALS / MND ASSOCIATIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1079504](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079504)]<br>The International Alliance of ALS/MND Associations founded in November of 1992 to provide an international community for ALS/MND associations from around the world.  Our vision is to engage our members, prospective members and other organizations in sharing resources globally, advancing awareness and supporting people with ALS/MND worldwide. | £699,821
<strong>THE DARBY RIMMER MND FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1185307](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185307)]<br>Please see our website for more information: https://darbyrimmermnd.co.uk/ | £689,936
<strong>THE MATT GALLAGHER FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1207541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207541)]<br>As a Charity we pledge: To provide financial support for those in need affected by Motor Neurone Disease;To provide emotional and practical support, guidance and assistance for the care of those affected by Motor Neurone Disease; To fund research, equipment and studies associated with with Motor Neurone Disease of which the results would be shared with the wider field. | £675,194
<strong>CHALLENGING MND</strong> [Charity number: [1182607](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182607)]<br>THE PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF GOOD HEALTH AMONG THOSE SUFFERING WITH MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE, BY IMPROVING THEIR QUALITY OF LIFE THROUGH THE PROVISION OF A FINANCIAL GRANT TO ENABLE THEM TO COMPLETE A PARTICULAR EVENT OR CHALLENGE. | £503,061
<strong>CENTRAL HARVEST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1135769](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135769)]<br>The promotion of  the Christian religion, relief of poverty, youth ministries, counselling, advice, support and training for Families, Youth, and Young Adult in the communities. We also provide provide prayer support for people in the community, and als pray for the prosperity of the Nation | £224,248
<strong>STAND AGAINST MND</strong> [Charity number: [1187436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187436)]<br>Raising funds and awareness in the stand against motor neurone disease. | £121,063
<strong>THE HEATON - ELLIS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1126534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126534)]<br>The Trust was set up to help extinguish Motor Neurone Disease (MND) for which there is no specific test or effective treatment. The goal for the MND gene-hunting programme is to discover all the genes responsible for causing MND. Once achieved drugs can be screened that can arrest and even reverse motor neurone degeneration. Funds raised by the trust will help to fund the gene-hunting initiative. | £120,211


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE MNDEFIANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1210270](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210270)]<br>THE TRUST WILL OPERATE PURELY FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES TO EASE THE FINANCIAL BURDENS ASSOCIATED WITH THE COST OF CARE, LOSS OF EARNINGS AND GENERAL HARDSHIPS THAT MAY HAVE ARISEN FROM A MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE DIAGNOSIS FOR UK RESIDENTSTO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE AND THEIR FAMILIES, PARTNERS AND DEPENDANTS IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING ASSISTANCE (INCLUDING FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE), SUPPORT AND ADVICE | £17,605
<strong>JO KNOWLTON'S JOURNEY WITH MND</strong> [Charity number: [SC054472](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054472)]<br>Raising further awareness and understanding of Motor Neurone Disease and supporting the challenges which those affected by both the disease and by association are faced with by:  1. Funding for those affected by Motor Neurone Disease 1.1. Long term goal of achieving a centre where sufferers can attend to receive positive and valuable respite to allow the primary care giver(s) support and relieving them from the constant demand of the daily challenges with Motor Neurone Disease 2. Providing a service which can offer first hand knowledge and experience of living, coping and tackling Motor Neurone Disease for both patient and family members 3. Providing awareness and knowledge to assist within the healthcare profession to gain a better understanding and care of patients suffering with Motor Neurone Disease with the possibility of both information sessions and training packages | 
<strong>MND Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002662](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002662)]<br>4.2.1 The relief of those in need by reason of ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage caused by Motor Neurone Disease by:- 4.2.1.1 The provision of care, support and practical assistance. 4.2.1.2 The provision of items, services and facilities which are calculated to relieve those impacted by Motor Neurone Disease, after appropriate health and/or social care consultation. 4.2.1.3 The provision of services and facilities which are calculated to provide support to the families and carers of those impacted by Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.1.4 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver appropriate improvements in related services 4.2.2 The advancement of health by:- 4.2.2.1 The development of services and facilities which are calculated to relieve suffering of people impacted by Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.2.2 The development of services and facilities which are calculated to provide support to the families and carers of people impacted by Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.2.3 The promotion and funding of appropriate research into the care, cause, treatment and possible prevention of Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.2.4 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver appropriate improvements in healthcare 4.2.3 The advancement of education by:- 4.2.3.1 The dissemination of the results of research into the care, cause, treatment and possible prevention of Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.2 The development of education services relating to Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.3 The promotion and funding of education services relating to Motor Neurone Disease. 4.2.3.4 The promotion and funding of the development of research skills and capabilities relating to Motor Neurone Disease 4.2.3.5 The development and execution of campaigns designed to deliver improvements in awareness and understanding of Motor Neurone Disease  | £2,697,268
<strong>DEAN FOX MND FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1208673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208673)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF PEOPLE WHO HAVE MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE (MND) AND/OR THEIR FAMILIES, PARTNERS, DEPENDANTS AND CARERS IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING ASSISTANCE, SUPPORT AND ADVICE TO SUCH PERSONS AND BY SUPPORTING RESEARCH INTO MND, THE USEFUL RESULTS OF WHICH WILL BE DISSEMINATED TO THE PUBLIC.   | 
<strong>GEORGE BARTON MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1007505](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1007505)]<br>The George Barton Motor Neurone Disease (Research) Trust raise funds for extensive research into this devastating disease. Research has taken the form of drug trials involving patient participation and experimental studies at cellular level. The results of these have been presented at both National and International level, in the medical press and at scientific meetings and symposia. | £4,871
<strong>The Peedie Retreat [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC051289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051289)]<br>4	The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1	To provide for the people of Orkney who suffer from Multiple Sclerosis, Cancer or Motor Neurone Disease (MND) and their family, support and carers, fully accessible, comfortable accommodation, free of charge, for short stay respite breaks.   4.2	To provide a tranquil environment where people whose mental health, physical and financial wellbeing has been detrimentally impacted because of their life limiting health condition can feel rejuvenated and valued, increase their self-esteem and self-worth, share time with their families and friends and create positive and happy memories.  4.3	To provide support for Children in Orkney who are living with Cancer, MS or MND or are Young Carers, or have siblings, family or friends living with these conditions. Providing awareness, understanding, developmental activities and education around these conditions. | £94,523
<strong>ALS PALS</strong> [Charity number: [1184001](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184001)]<br>FundraisingSupport to cancer patients emotionally and practically in hospital, at home, online and in the communityTelephone supportAdvocacySignpostingGifts | £79,497
<strong>MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1213435](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1213435)]<br>For the public benefit, the relief and assistance of people living with Motor Neuron Disease (MND) and their family carers within the United Kingdom by:-Funding research projects for the cure of MND and-Providing MND Centres of Excellence, wherever there is such need, the first being located in Essex. These Centres will ease the suffering of the families affected by MND by offering a singl | 
<strong>THE MATT GALLAGHER FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1207541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207541)]<br>As a Charity we pledge: To provide financial support for those in need affected by Motor Neurone Disease;To provide emotional and practical support, guidance and assistance for the care of those affected by Motor Neurone Disease; To fund research, equipment and studies associated with with Motor Neurone Disease of which the results would be shared with the wider field. | £675,194
<strong>BOLTON NEURO VOICES</strong> [Charity number: [1178772](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178772)]<br>Bolton Neuro Voices works with five local  support groups (Stroke, ME. Parkinson's. MS and Motor Neurone Disease) and also with individuals with rarer conditions to improve quality of life. It provides a range of services including links to statutory bodies, information and access to hydrotherapy and dry exercise. Involvement in these activities facilitates mutual support and reduces isolation. | £5,766
