# Complementary therapies `HE303`

Complementary therapies is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

133 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(complementary therap(y|ies))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 30 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 23 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 32 | 0.15%
£250k - £500k | 12 | 0.12%
£500k - £1m | 14 | 0.22%
£1m - £10m | 16 | 0.19%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 128 | 0.07%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 85 | 0.05%
ccni | 36 | 0.50%
oscr | 12 | 0.05%
Total | 133 | 0.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>VOCATIONAL TRAINING CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [295192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295192)]<br>Vocational Training Charitable Trust (VTCT) is a specialist vocational and technical Awarding Organisation and End-Point Assessment Organisation for hair, beauty, aesthetics and complementary therapies as well as a number of qualifications in sports therapy, fitness, and learning and development. Our qualifications are delivered under three brands: VTCT, iTEC and Skillsfirst. | £11,661,678
<strong>SAINT CATHERINE'S HOSPICE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [284701](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284701)]<br>We provide specialist palliative care across Scarborough,Whitby,Ryedale, Bridlington and Driffield. This involves in-patients, out-patient clinics, wellbeing center, hospice at home, specialist palliative community and neurology nurses, lymphoedema, complementary therapy, bereavement support, out of hours support and education and training of other healthcare professionals. | £6,217,519
<strong>Accord Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC013682](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013682)]<br>5.1	The objects and purposes for which the Company is established are wholly charitable and are to provide specialist supportive and palliative care to, and relieve pain, ease suffering, and maintain dignity of patients, and to respond to the needs of patients' family members and carers in a partnership of care in such ways as the Company shall from time to time determine including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) by:-   5.1.1	establishing, maintaining and operating hospices and outreach facilities in the local authority area of Renfrewshire and those parts of the local authority area of East Renfrewshire comprising Barrhead, Neilston and Uplawmoor, formerly part of the local authority area of Renfrew District Council, for the reception and care (inpatient and outpatient) of persons (aged 18 years and above) for whom palliative care is appropriate.    5.1.2	providing medical, nursing and other treatment (including complementary therapies) to deliver specialist and supportive palliative care for patients, and their family members and carers wherever required.   5.1.3	promoting, encouraging and assisting in the teaching or training of any persons engaged in any medical or paramedical field and particularly in the training of doctors, nurses, allied health professionals, staff, volunteers, care home workers and other persons engaged in palliative health, therapeutic and social care service delivery.    5.1.4	encouraging and participating in research into palliative care and treatment. and   5.1.5	providing pastoral, spiritual and counselling support (including pre and post bereavement care) to patients, their family members and carers, staff, and volunteers, and making available social work advocacy, guidance and support to patients, and their family members  and carers.    | £4,331,158
<strong>TREETOPS HOSPICE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [519540](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519540)]<br>Treetops Hospice provides Daycare, Complementary Therapy and Hospice at Home care for people suffering from life-limiting illnesses. We also provide Carers Support and Complementary Therapy for people involved in caring for people with life-limiting illnesses and Bereavement Support for people and families who have suffered a bereavement. | £4,252,654
<strong>Action Cancer</strong> [Charity number: [NI104170](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104170)]<br>We protect health and well being through the provision of services, equipment and facilities for the treatment and screening against cancer and allied diseases particularly, but not exclusively in Northern Ireland, e.g. we provide mammograms for women We provide help, support and assistance through the provision of counselling, coaching, mentoring, Listening Ear services, complementary therapies, peer support and similar interventions to people directly or indirectly affected by cancer (e.g. family members/carers etc). We develop an awareness of cancer, its allied diseases and related illnesses through the provision of education, diagnostic services, equipment and facilities, the promotion and support of research and the dissemination of information e.g. provision of health checks, education in schools, workplaces and communities, provision of information on cancer to the public and those affected by cancer. We aim to effect positive change to the lives of the population of Northern Ireland through promoting, campaigning, lobbying and the general influencing of opinion formers, stakeholders and the general public on issues relating and pertaining to health and specifically cancer, its allied diseases and related illnesses. | £4,013,477
<strong>Sisters of Mercy, Northern Province</strong> [Charity number: [NI102827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102827)]<br>The advancement of religion and the prevention and relief of poverty in Northern Ireland and elsewhere are of utmost importance to the Charity. The Charity seeks to accomplish these charitable purposes through education, nurturing spirituality and well-being, social and pastoral work and international missionary outreach. 1. The Charity is involved in primary, post primary and community education and is the Trustee of a number of schools in Northern Ireland. The Charity supports projects which promote training in ecological awareness and sustainable living. 2. The Charity offers opportunities for faith development, prayer, retreats, spiritual direction and inter faith dialogue to members of the public. 3. The Charity undertakes social and pastoral work; chaplaincy, counselling, and complementary therapies to promote the health and well-being of people, contributing to the alleviation of stress in society. 4. The Charity works with the public in the promotion of peace, justice and understanding in cross community settings. 5. The Charity supports all religious and charitable works carried on in the Congregation's name and cares for Congregational Members throughout their lives. 6. The Charity works to prevent and alleviate poverty at local and international level through the provision of funds, personnel and community facilities and through the support of other charities and projects thus improving the quality of life and well-being of individuals, families, society and the planet. The Charity reviews its work to determine the best ways to advance religion and to prevent and alleviate poverty in today’s world. | £3,572,042
<strong>Mind in Tower Hamlets, Newham and Redbridge</strong> [Charity number: [1006927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1006927)]<br>Mind in Tower Hamlets and Newham provide a range of community and in-patient services for people who are experiencing mental health and emotional issues living in the London  boroughs of Tower Hamlets and Newham.  We work with people through one to one support and group work, counselling, advice and advocacy, employment and training as well as complementary therapies. | £3,305,278
<strong>PAUL SARTORI FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [513079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513079)]<br>To enable people living in the later stages of any life limiting illness to die at home with dignity, independence & surrounded by their loved ones if that is their choice. Services include, hands on care, equipment loan, physiotherapy, complementary therapy, counselling, bereavement, a Clinical Nurse Specialist, training & advanced care planning. Services are free of charge, 24/7, 365 days a year | £2,630,359
<strong>KIDS INSPIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1129513](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129513)]<br>1:1 or group therapy with qualified therapists using a variety of techniques including art, music or complementary therapies, Mentoring, home visits and parental support around behavior, abuse, poverty and isolation, Support for identified issues such as bereavement and domestic abuse, Partnership work with other services including statutory provision. | £1,921,914
<strong>Ayrshire Cancer Support</strong> [Charity number: [SC016098](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016098)]<br>5 The company's objects are: - 5.1 To reduce the symptoms and anxieties of a cancer diagnosis, or other debilitating, life altering and life limiting conditions in any manner which now is or hereafter may be deemed by law to be charitable. 5.2 To provide transport to patients receiving cancer treatment at hospital or other community setting. 5.3 To provide professional counselling services and a range of complementary therapies and support groups for those affected by a cancer diagnosis. 5.4 To educate and empower people in a positive approach to living with cancer or life altering or life limiting conditions. 5.5 To provide respite and drop-in facilities for those affected by cancer, and others affected by conditions as in article 5 .1 above. 5.6 To provide community hubs and outreach facilities for the benefit of patients and their families. 5.7 To conduct scientific research into the psychological health and wellbeing of cancer-related conditions and to collate and disseminate information there anent. 5.8 To pursue all objects consistent or compatible with any of the foregoing purposes. | £1,685,554


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE FOUNTAIN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1089086](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089086)]<br>The Fountain Centre aims to enable cancer patients and others with similar chronic illnesses, and their families to regain control of their lives by empowering them with information and support.  We offer a wide range of complementary therapies, group classes and counselling. | £634,352
<strong>Focus on Family Nurturing & Development Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI103600](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103600)]<br>Focus on Family Nurturing & Development Centre • Childcare – SureStart & Community business • Family Links Nurturing Programmes for parents and children • Skills-based courses – NRC – Literacy/Numeracy/ICT/Creative Crafts • Complementary Therapies – Shiatsu, Yoga, Pilates, Reiki, Holistic Therapies, Reflexology • Other programmes – Crafts group, Creative writing, Cookery, Fitness Programmes • Links with external agencies – range of local and regional initiatives • Community space for local residents – kitchen, social hub, launderette Ballysally Integrated Nurturing Project (BINP) • Focus on Family, Ballysally Primary School, Ballysally Presbyterian Church, Ballysally Nursery School • Focus on Family lead agency • Nurturing services for all ages – cradle to grave approach • Steering Group & Operational Group Millburn Community Association • Partnership approach to facilitate Millburn Community Development Worker • Delivery of key services for Millburn community • Enabling better cohesion between Ballysally & Millburn Aspire – Ballysally & Millburn Collaborative Partnership • Delivery of The Cornfield Project - outdoor environmental space • Local groups within locality meeting to develop partnership approach • Balance of work meetings & relationship building events • Work to be developed: Joint working/programmes/activities/events Potential joint-funding bid with integrated services Way forward • Development of Focus on Family Centre and services (DSD NRA/SureStart/Tudor Trust/Small Grants) • Continuation of BINP – new Council funding • Development of Aspire – joint-funding bid among local partners with integrated programme Underlying Principles • Partnership approach • Balance of informal and people-centred with professional and accountable • Willingness to change/adapt/learn from others • Open to new wider structures and integrated community development • Honest to seek support/guidance when needed | £497,888
<strong>YELENI THERAPY & SUPPORT LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1118969](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118969)]<br>We aim to provide a programme of free complementary therapies plus ongoing support via workshops, self help groups and exercise classes for anyone with cancer in Herefordshire and surrounding counties to help them cope with the rigours of conventional treatment and support them on their journey towards living well with, and beyond cancer. We also offer support to their carers. | £118,128
<strong>SMILE FROM HATTI</strong> [Charity number: [1166495](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166495)]<br>Our mission  of the charity is to bring a smile to the faces young people suffering with cancer (between the ages 18-40). We fund such things as complementary therapies, services, clothing or equipment. | £5,184
<strong>Omagh Support & Self Help Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI100554](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100554)]<br>The group’s current activities include: • Family fun days; • Respite trips; • Monthly social activities; • Reconciliation seminars; • Welfare advice; Truth and Justice campaigning • Professional counselling service; • Educational and recreational seminars; • IT training; • Complementary therapies; • Befriending service. • Archiving. • Charity Shop. | £13,909
<strong>THE DROP IN BEREAVEMENT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1161526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161526)]<br>1-2-1  and Telephone Bereavement Counselling/Covid-19 Peer Support Group Counselling workshops.Health Well Being Project  Activities/Complementary Therapies, Yoga/Pilates/Art/Music Therapy Social day trips/places of interest/Group walksDrop In Tea/Coffee mornings (please call centre)Fundraising Events Cake Bake/Pub Quiz/Fun Bingo/creative arts/sponsored walksInfo/advocacy wills/probat | £53,000
<strong>Fibromyalgia Awareness NI (FMANI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100292](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100292)]<br>We are a support group for sufferers of Fibromyalgia Patients in Northern Ireland & beyond, their carers and families. We run a charity shop where all proceeds go to (FMANI) A drop-in support centre, this is open to the public to call in and get information & Advice on Fibromyalgia. An online support group. We provide information and support on issues regarding health and benefits. We offer counselling and complementary therapies to better manage pain, depression and isolation issues. We run a 24 hour online support group on facebook. You can ask to be connected to our group via the link below! https://www.facebook.com/groups/fmani/ As well as a phone service Helpline.0845 600 3213 Our Helpline is open Mon - Fri 10:30am -16:30pm (Except bank holidays). Office: 028 777 68066 | £39,073
<strong>PAUL SARTORI FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [513079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513079)]<br>To enable people living in the later stages of any life limiting illness to die at home with dignity, independence & surrounded by their loved ones if that is their choice. Services include, hands on care, equipment loan, physiotherapy, complementary therapy, counselling, bereavement, a Clinical Nurse Specialist, training & advanced care planning. Services are free of charge, 24/7, 365 days a year | £2,630,359
<strong>Relatives for Justice</strong> [Charity number: [NI101311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101311)]<br>RFJ is registered with the British Association for Counselling and Psychotherapy. We provide counselling and psychotherapy and pathways of referral where appropriate to statutory mental health providers. All counsellors and psychotherapists are accredited and supervised. RFJ also provides complementary therapies and training in complementary therapies. We provide health days based in localised community centres to support access to understanding of techniques to manage anxiety and stress resulting from trauma. RFJ provides an advice service on applications for benefits and for individual schemes of assistance available from the Victims and Survivors Service. RFJ provides research advice to families seeking information on the circumstances of the deaths and injuries of their loved ones - this includes research services using public records and available contemporaneous materials. RFJ provides advice and support to those engaging with historic investigation mechanisms such as inquests, PSNI investigations and Police Ombudsman Investigations RFJ also provides drop-in services of safety and friendship. IN addition we provide vocational and non-vocational classes such as painting, quilting, pottery, creative writing, flower arranging. These are all designed to support the expression of traumatic experience in a safe and managed environment. RFJ also support families and individuals to safely record their experience of trauma through writing, painting, quilting and other creative art forms. | £1,220,359
<strong>Springhill Community House</strong> [Charity number: [NI100911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100911)]<br>From its inception the purpose of Springhill has and will continue to be about empowering people to take control of their own lives. This remains at the heart of what SCH is about and involves tackling the apathy and frustration felt by individuals through programmes of personal development, life coaching, education, training, health awareness and confidence building. SCH has continued to build on its early ethos of free learning and provides a wide spectrum of courses: Statistics show that many in the West Belfast have little or no qualifications on leaving school and that mainstream schooling has been a negative experience for them. This negative experience has tainted their view of mainstream education and acts as a barrier for returners to education. SCH is about overcoming these barriers by providing programmes in a relaxed and informal environment that puts participants at their ease which creates a positive learning experience. Programmes include: Accredited and non-accredited courses, Life Coaching, Information Communication Technologies, Complementary Therapy Clinics and Training, Premises are used as a Community Resource, Victims Advocacy Support | £239,009
