# Nursing `HE306`

Nursing is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

833 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.41% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(nursing|nurses?|nurisng)`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`nursery|nurseries`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 318 | 0.38%
£10k - £100k | 201 | 0.31%
£100k - £250k | 64 | 0.33%
£250k - £500k | 31 | 0.34%
£500k - £1m | 27 | 0.47%
£1m - £10m | 116 | 1.46%
Over £10m | 51 | 2.75%
Total | 808 | 0.42%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 663 | 0.39%
oscr | 122 | 0.48%
ccni | 48 | 0.67%
Total | 833 | 0.41%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE</strong> [Charity number: [519996](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-519996)]<br>COMMUNITY INTEGRATED CARE WORK ACROSS THE WHOLE OF THE CARE SPECTRUM DELIVERING DIVERSE SUPPORT AND CARE SERVICES ACROSS ENGLAND AND SCOTLAND.  THE CHARITY PROVIDES SUPPORTED LIVING FOR PEOPLE WITH LEARNING OR PHYSICAL DIFFICULTIES AND/OR MENTAL HEALTH CONCERNS AS WELL AS RESIDENTIAL AND NURSING CARE FOR OLDER PEOPLE INCLUDING DEMENTIA CARE USING ITS EACHSTEP MODEL OF CARE. | £143,146,000
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £142,814,877
<strong>Nursing And Midwifery Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC038362](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038362)]<br>(2) The principal functions of the Council shall be to establish from time to time standards of education, training, conduct and performance for nurses and midwives and to ensure the maintenance of those standards. (4) The main objective of the Council in exercising its functions shall be to safeguard the health and well-being of persons using or needing the services of registrants. | £100,398,000
<strong>NURSING AND MIDWIFERY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1091434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091434)]<br>The NMC is the independent regulator for nurses and midwives in the UK. Our primary purpose is to protect patients and the public through effective and proportionate regulation of nurses and midwives. We set and promote standards of education and practice, maintain a register of those who meet these standards, and take action when a nurse's or midwife's fitness to practise is called into question. | £100,398,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION CARE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1163245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163245)]<br>The main activity is the provision of 1096 registered beds for Residential, Dementia, and Nursing care in 17 Care Homes throughout England and Wales. In addition the Charity runs approximately 145 sheltered units for those who seek independence and can still look after themselves. Many of these tenants later become residents in the Homes. | £54,482,000
<strong>GREENSLEEVES HOMES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1060478](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060478)]<br>The provision of nursing and residential care, comfort and security to elderly men and women, at an economic price that reflects our charitable status. | £53,662,254
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £52,292,608
<strong>CARE SOUTH</strong> [Charity number: [1014697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014697)]<br>Care South provides quality care services in the south of England to up to 2000 people each day.  All aspects of care including dementia, nursing, frailty and special needs are provided to people either in Care South's care homes or in their own homes. | £46,739,000
<strong>Quarriers</strong> [Charity number: [SC001960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001960)]<br>2.1 To promote the relief and advancement of life opportunities for those faced with and affected by disadvantage through disability, addiction, chronic and/or terminal illness, mental infirmity, financial hardship and/or poverty and homelessness through person centred care and support in such ways as the company shall from time to time think fit without regard to race, nationality, creed, age, gender, or sexual orientation and without geographical restriction and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):  (a) By establishing, maintaining and conducting residential care and other support services for the reception and care of persons who are suffering from any chronic and/or terminal illness or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons.  (b) Providing practical care and support of persons suffering from the effects of disability, chronic and/or terminal illness, poverty or suffering (such persons being hereinafter referred to as “the People We Support”) which care and support may include, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of counselling and emotional, therapeutic, financial, educational and domiciliary support, the provision of information, advice and training, the provision of nursing and medical services, the provision and facilitation of accommodation, the provision and facilitation of vocational training and employment services and/or other training to the People We Support.  (c) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research and evaluation into the care, welfare and support of the People We Support and the dissemination of knowledge.   Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £45,837,000
<strong>ST ANNE'S COMMUNITY SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [502224](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-502224)]<br>We provide support services throughout the North of England for people who are homeless, who have a learning disability, mental health problems or substance use problems. A wide range of services include Supported Living, Supported Housing, Registered Care and Nursing Homes,respite care, direct access and resettlement hostels and a range of community based support. | £43,723,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CROSLAND MOOR AND DISTRICT COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1186285](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186285)]<br>To provide a Community Centre for the benefit of the residents of Crosland Moor and neighbourhood for educational or recreative purposes (or as a clinic or welfare or nursing centre). | £26,636
<strong>ODIHAM COTTAGE HOSPITAL COMBINED TRUSTS (INCORPORATING THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF OCH) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1068721](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068721)]<br>Odiham Cottage Hospital Charitable Trust provides health and social care the the residents of West Hart and Old Basing, Hampshire.Its services include being the base for the NHS community nursing team and their medical clinics, the Rosefield Day Centre for the elderly, specialist clinics run by St Michaels Hospice and counselling services run by Hart Voluntary Action. | £216,530
<strong>THE BIRMINGHAM ORTHOPAEDIC CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1092203](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092203)]<br>Education and advance knowledge amongst doctors, nurses and other professions relating  to orthopaedic ailments and their treatment and cures.The undertaking and development of any research projects carried out increasing medical knowledge of orthopaedic ailments and to disseminate and publish the useful results of such research projects for the benefit of the public. | £5,066
<strong>Melanoma Focus</strong> [Charity number: [1124716](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124716)]<br>Melanoma Focus is a national charity dedicated to providing a comprehensive and authoritative source of information about this most deadly form of skin cancer. The charity funds education and independent research projects, acts as an advocate for patients and carers, informs the general public and promotes the professional interests of clinicians, scientists & nurses working in the melanoma field. | £386,012
<strong>BETHSHAN SHELTERED HOUSING ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1064373](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064373)]<br>Bethshan is situated in the heart of Mid-Wales.  We run a purpose-built 40-bed nursing home catering for frail elderly people and those with dementia as well as people under 65 requiring full-time nursing care .  Our first priority is to serve the needs of those from our local area. | £1,945,872
<strong>THE KABANDA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1115939](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115939)]<br>Support the development of health & education at Rock of Joy Childrens Centre,Lungujja and other associated schools in  Uganda. Make one-off grants to the schools for equipment & materials & provide regular monthly funding which provides school meals, teacher support & other resources. Developed a health project employing a School Nurse who provides education,prevention & treatment. | £83,133
<strong>YOUNG PEOPLE'S WELLBEING SERVICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1125891](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125891)]<br>The service provides a free confidential service for young people aged 11 to 20 years for advice on a range of  health related issues; Eg contraception and sexual health, smoking, alcohol, acne, emotional health. Counselling is provided for young people aged 11 to 19 yrs who live in the Eastleigh District. Staff include Doctors, Nurses, Counsellors and Admin staff as well as volunteers. | £126,666
<strong>JESUS OUR SAVIOUR MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1179552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179552)]<br>In Jesus our saviour ministries we reach out to the communities to share Gods word. We do:- We hold mass and prayer gathering in church- Evangelism- socializing or taking trips to the seaside during summer breaks.- We visit and hold service at nursing homes- We organise youth conferences and women conferences during summer times- We do members and family picnic during summer holidays. | £3,994
<strong>Fonic Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI100520](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100520)]<br>We raise donations from supporters in Northern Ireland, Great Britain and the Republic of Ireland. On occasions we have fundraising events and we work in partnership with other charities in joint fundraising which will ultimately benefit our community of interest in Nepal. We have provided clothes, footwear, blankets, goats and pigs to those in poverty to sustain them during the cold weather and to make them more independent through getting milk from the goats and breeding goats which then generates money which they can use for other food and children’s education. We financially support the education of several children and young people. We developed a health education programme based on a teaching book which we have rolled out to several communities and have also made available to other organisations. We have worked in conjunction with indigenous churches financially supporting their work in the more rural areas and in the help they supply to their communities. We also supply financial support to those who wish to become medical professionals. As already stated they are bonded to stay in Nepal for a minimum of three years after becoming qualified as Doctors, Nurses, Physiotherapists etc. Since 2005 we have fully trained one doctor, part trained a second doctor and we have a nurse in her second year of training. | £54,807
<strong>Sir Gabriel Wood's Mariners' Home</strong> [Charity number: [SC003763](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003763)]<br>The Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund and income thereof to provide residential and nursing home care including care for those with special needs including alzheimers and dementia related illnesses, post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions as well as short term respite care to the following: 3.1. Former seafarers, including those who have worked in the maritime industry or ports as well as at sea in the Merchant Navy,  Royal Navy, Royal Marines or the WRNS, the widows or widowers of such retired persons, including married couples, civil partnerships and their immediate families where at least one person was a former seafarer.  3.2. Anyone with a work connection to the sea which shall include for the avoidance of doubt former ferry or dock workers, onshore staff etc and the widows or widowers of such retired persons, including married couples, civil partnerships and their immediate families where at least one person had a work connection to the sea in some way. 3.3. Persons of all ages who have no work connection to the sea whatsoever but have another form of service background including the armed services. and 3.4. Those who are in need by reason of age, ill health (which will include any form of mental or physical illness), disability, financial hardship or some other disadvantage.  3.5.	DECLARING THAT in determining who should be received by the Trust under clauses 3.1 to 3.4, the Trustees shall also apply the following: 3.5.1. The Trustees shall have absolute discretion at all times to determine who they shall consider to be suitable for admission.  3.5.2. Preference shall be given where possible to British citizens and to those resident within the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands.  3.5.3. Where possible, preference shall be given to former seafarers and to those with a connection to Scotland, in particular those with a connection to the Counties of Renfrew, Ayr, Dumbarton, Argyll and Bute.  | £763,987
