# Alternative medicine `HE301`

Alternative medicine is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

50 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.02% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(homeopath(ic|y|s)|astrolog(ical|y)|naturopaths?|psychic|alternative (medicine|therap|ies))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 19 | 0.03%
£10k - £100k | 16 | 0.02%
£100k - £250k | 5 | 0.02%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 6 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 50 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 42 | 0.02%
oscr | 6 | 0.02%
ccni | 2 | 0.03%
Total | 50 | 0.02%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BCNO LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [312907](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312907)]<br>BCOM provides graduate and postgraduate osteopathic education via an integrated mix of academic and clinical study.The College offers university validated degree courses which are also, where appropriate, professionally accredited by the General Osteopathic Council and the General Council & Register of Naturopaths. | £3,944,770
<strong>HOMEOPATHY RESEARCH INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1132901](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132901)]<br>The Homeopathy Research Institute is a unique and innovative charity created to address the need for reliable scientific evidence in homeopathy. To this end, the Institute has gathered together an international team of experts to facilitate high-quality scientific research in this field. HRI is currently the only charitable organisation dedicated to homeopathy research on an international level. | £1,612,865
<strong>WEST WALES DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1131539](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131539)]<br>Provide emergency refuge accommodation to persons and children affected by domestic abuse.  We support families in the community with floating support and outreach.  Specialist services for children and young persons.Other services include the running of the Freedom Programme, Recovery Toolkit, substance misuse, counselling, homeopathy and fun days out. awareness raising. | £1,265,155
<strong>THE COLLEGE OF PSYCHIC STUDIES</strong> [Charity number: [212728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212728)]<br>The College explores consciousness beyond matter. | £1,232,788
<strong>Homeopathy UK</strong> [Charity number: [235900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-235900)]<br>To ensure that homeopathy is available to all by fundraising and campaigning for: (1) public information and awareness, (2) access to homeopathic services, (3) professional education and training, (4) research | £1,012,568
<strong>Homeopathy UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC049515](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049515)]<br>The primary objects for which the Association is established are: (a) to promote and develop the study and practice of Homeopathy. and (b) to advance education and research in the theory and practice of Homeopathy provided that the useful results of such research shall be published.  | £1,012,568
<strong>THE WHITE EAGLE LODGE</strong> [Charity number: [1156336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156336)]<br>To make ready and available the White Eagle Teachings to those who seek them and to provide for the study, teaching and expression of the Teachings in all suitable forms. To offer a path of spiritual service and unfoldment based on the Teachings, including the provision of healing and the study of meditation and astrology. The provision of services, talks, spiritual retreats and courses. | £966,580
<strong>MAKE MY DAY BETTER LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1139533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139533)]<br>For the prevention or relief of poverty and the advancement of health or the saving of lives, the charity: funds research into complementary and alternative medicine, makes grants to individuals in cases of demonstrable hardship or need, supports education and makes grants to institutions and charities who are able to carry out activities that further the objects of Make My Day Better. | £756,127
<strong>THE HINDU CENTRE (EAST LONDON)</strong> [Charity number: [254982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-254982)]<br>PROMOTING HINDU RELIGION, RUNNING RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE, HOLDING CONGREGATION, GIVE RELIGIOUS TALK TO SCHOOL CHILDREN VISITS PRAYERS MEETINGS, FUNERALS, CEREMONIES, EVENTS LIKE BIRTHDAYS, ANNIVERSARIES, WEDDINGS (INDIAN & REGISTRY OFFICE WEDDING), NAMING CEREMONY, BABY SHOWER CEREMONY, CELEBRATION OF ALL FESTIVALS, PRIESTS SERVICES, IN THE TEMPLE & OUTSIDE THE TEMPLE. ASTROLOGY & PALMISTRY SERVICE. | £298,246
<strong>WOMEN AND HEALTH</strong> [Charity number: [296262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296262)]<br>Women and Health is a charity working in the London Borough of Camden.  It provides low cost complementary and alternative medicine treatments and counselling services for women living or working in the borough.  (Counselling for women living or seeing a GP in the borough). W&H provides well being classes, advisory GP and outreachs services to isolated and housebound women. | £274,268


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WEST WALES DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1131539](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131539)]<br>Provide emergency refuge accommodation to persons and children affected by domestic abuse.  We support families in the community with floating support and outreach.  Specialist services for children and young persons.Other services include the running of the Freedom Programme, Recovery Toolkit, substance misuse, counselling, homeopathy and fun days out. awareness raising. | £1,265,155
<strong>THE BAKEWELL AREA U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1111699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111699)]<br>Topics covered include: A Passion for Churches, Astrology, Art, Book Reading, Bowling, Bridge, Contemporary Social Issues, Cooking by Men, Creative Writing, Current Affairs, Embroiderers, Enjoying Music, Gardening, Genealogy, History,Modern Photography, Opera, Personal Finance, Philosophy, French, Latin, Recorder, Roman Studies, , Spanish, Theatre, Walking, Weekend Lunch Group | £4,733
<strong>NEO HUMANIST FOUNDATION (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1100422](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1100422)]<br>1) Fundraising for Ghana Homeopathy Project-Africa which is a UK charity "Homeopathy in Africa". 2) fundraising for the Poor Schools in India fund, known as "POOR". 3) Fundraising for "Abha Light Foundation" https://abhalight.org/ which is a health charity active in Africa. | £20,149
<strong>Homeopathy UK</strong> [Charity number: [235900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-235900)]<br>To ensure that homeopathy is available to all by fundraising and campaigning for: (1) public information and awareness, (2) access to homeopathic services, (3) professional education and training, (4) research | £1,012,568
<strong>Belfast Health Initiative</strong> [Charity number: [NI102668](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102668)]<br>The Belfast Health Initiative was established in 2003 with the purpose of promoting Complementary Alternative Medicines (CAMs). We produce a quarterly newsletter with a distribution of 500+. We organise public lectures with health related themes so that people can make informed choices about their own health and well-being. We have been at the forefront of lobbying to have CAM's available through the NHS which resulted in a one year pilot scheme based in two GP surgeries in Belfast and Derry where CAM's were available to patients. We also established the Belfast School of Homeopathy in 2003 which is run on a co-operative basis. | £24,064
<strong>Homeopathy UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC049515](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049515)]<br>The primary objects for which the Association is established are: (a) to promote and develop the study and practice of Homeopathy. and (b) to advance education and research in the theory and practice of Homeopathy provided that the useful results of such research shall be published.  | £1,012,568
<strong>Helen Campbell Homeopathy Foundation SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC049000](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049000)]<br>to promote, support and fund educational projects that relate to use of homeopathic energies to support the health, wellbeing and growth of people, animals and plants.  to advance knowledge, education and public awareness in respect to the health and healing benefits of homeopathic medicine and remedies, throughout Scotland, the UK and internationally.  to provide relief to those in need by reason of ill-health, disability or other disadvantage by promoting the benefits of homeopathic remedies for first aid, acute and chronic problems of ill health. and  to support projects that advance mental, emotional and physical wellbeing through the application of homeopathic philosophy and medicine, in particular community projects.  | £25,874
<strong>THE WHITE EAGLE LODGE</strong> [Charity number: [1156336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156336)]<br>To make ready and available the White Eagle Teachings to those who seek them and to provide for the study, teaching and expression of the Teachings in all suitable forms. To offer a path of spiritual service and unfoldment based on the Teachings, including the provision of healing and the study of meditation and astrology. The provision of services, talks, spiritual retreats and courses. | £966,580
<strong>HOMEOPATHY ACTION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [328537](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328537)]<br>Promoting homeopathy through education, together with a commitment to widen the availability of homeopathy and to raise funds to support homeopathic activities. | £172,008
<strong>BLACKIE FOUNDATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [313442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313442)]<br>Provides research grants and financial assistance to medically qualified health care professionals in the field of homeopathy. | £53,999
