# Counselling and therapy `HE304`

Counselling and therapy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

3,073 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.53% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(counsell(ing|ors?)|samaritans|listening services?|psycho(-| )?analysis|talking therapy)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 645 | 0.78%
£10k - £100k | 1,112 | 1.71%
£100k - £250k | 424 | 2.19%
£250k - £500k | 250 | 2.76%
£500k - £1m | 186 | 3.23%
£1m - £10m | 207 | 2.60%
Over £10m | 23 | 1.24%
Total | 2,847 | 1.48%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,555 | 1.51%
oscr | 291 | 1.15%
ccni | 227 | 3.19%
Total | 3,073 | 1.53%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £112,754,000
<strong>EDUCATION DEVELOPMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [270901](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-270901)]<br>The Charity seeks to advance education for the public benefit.  To this end, we provide advice and consultancy services on education matters to governments and others, we teach, we provide counselling and guidance to young people and adults, we undertake or commission educational research and we provide training and support for educators. | £66,558,000
<strong>FOUNDATION FOR CREDIT COUNSELLING</strong> [Charity number: [1016630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016630)]<br>Foundation for Credit Counselling's principal activities are to provide free debt advice to the financially distressed and following advice either via telephone or online, to provide a range of debt management solutions to meet client needs such as debt management plans and a range of insolvency solutions. | £60,976,000
<strong>Foundation for Credit Counselling</strong> [Charity number: [SC046263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046263)]<br>3. The objects for which the Charity is established are:- 3.1 the prevention or relief of poverty amongst persons who are in debt (particularly in the United Kingdom) by:- (a) the provision of advice to assist such persons to re-schedule and refinance their borrowings. (b) the provision of financial education to enable such persons to manage their finances more effectively. (c) the establishment and support of counselling services to which such persons may resort for advice on debt matters generally. (d) the establishment of an insolvency practice to which such persons may resort as an alternative solution to debt problems. and (e) the establishment or support of such other services or products for the public benefit to assist in the relief of poverty. 3.2 to advance the education of the public in general (and particularly amongst persons in debt or at risk of falling into debt) on the subject of financial budgeting, financial products and financial services. | £60,976,000
<strong>Quarriers</strong> [Charity number: [SC001960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001960)]<br>2.1 To promote the relief and advancement of life opportunities for those faced with and affected by disadvantage through disability, addiction, chronic and/or terminal illness, mental infirmity, financial hardship and/or poverty and homelessness through person centred care and support in such ways as the company shall from time to time think fit without regard to race, nationality, creed, age, gender, or sexual orientation and without geographical restriction and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):  (a) By establishing, maintaining and conducting residential care and other support services for the reception and care of persons who are suffering from any chronic and/or terminal illness or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons.  (b) Providing practical care and support of persons suffering from the effects of disability, chronic and/or terminal illness, poverty or suffering (such persons being hereinafter referred to as “the People We Support”) which care and support may include, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of counselling and emotional, therapeutic, financial, educational and domiciliary support, the provision of information, advice and training, the provision of nursing and medical services, the provision and facilitation of accommodation, the provision and facilitation of vocational training and employment services and/or other training to the People We Support.  (c) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research and evaluation into the care, welfare and support of the People We Support and the dissemination of knowledge.   Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £45,837,000
<strong>Migrant Helpline</strong> [Charity number: [SC041022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041022)]<br>2.1 The objects for which the Company is established ('the Objects') are:  2.1.1 The relief of sickness and financial hardship of Beneficiaries including: (a) information and advice on counselling, health, legal and welfare services and assistance. (b) advice on financial maintenance which may include the direct provision of financial assistance, goods and services. (c) advice on and provision of residential accommodation. (d) such other items or services as the Trustees in their discretion choose to provide.  2.1.2 To advance the education and training of Beneficiaries and their dependants in need thereof so as to advance them in life and assist them to adapt within a new community.  2.1.3 To promote for the public benefit the sound administration of the law by providing advocacy services to Beneficiaries and their dependants.  2.1.4 To advance the education of the public in general about the issues relating to human migration.  2.2 In this Article 2, 'Beneficiaries' are defined as individuals, being:  2.2.1 foreign nationals. or  2.2.2 victims of human trafficking or potential victims of human trafficking (regardless of their nationality).   who are in difficulty on their arrival, stay or residence in or departure from the UK. | £33,499,000
<strong>SAMARITANS</strong> [Charity number: [219432](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-219432)]<br>Samaritans is the coordinating body for the 201 Samaritans branches located across the UK and Ireland.  Samaritans provides a safe place for people to talk, round the clock, every single day of the year. People can get in touch by phone, email, letter or by visiting a branch. Volunteers also do outreach work, for example, at festivals, prisons, hospitals and schools. | £27,445,047
<strong>Samaritans</strong> [Charity number: [SC040604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040604)]<br>(a)	To enable persons who are experiencing feelings of distress or despair, including those who may be at risk of suicide, to receive confidential emotional support at any time of the day or night in order to improve their emotional health and to reduce the incidence of suicide. and  (b)	To promote a better understanding in society of suicide, suicidal behaviour and the value of expressing feelings which may otherwise lead to suicide or impaired emotional health.  | £27,445,046
<strong>The Presbyterian Church In Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104483)]<br>Comment on matters of public importance from a Biblical perspective, issue statements on church policy relevant to the public domain. Maintain relationships with local, regional and national government, make representations and respond to consultations on relevant issues. Develop relationships with other Church bodies, charities, secular organisations and civic society. Monitor inter-church bodies of which the Presbyterian Church in Ireland is a member. Provide nominations to education and other state bodies where the Church is a stakeholder. Select, train and develop full and part-time ministers, offer pastoral care to them and their families. Select, train and support deaconesses and oversee their deployment. Maintain and manage Union Theological College, a third-level institution and a recognised College of Queen’s University, Belfast. Provide a conciliation service for church members. Resource presbyteries and congregations in worship; discipleship, nurture & teaching, pastoral care, world mission; and evangelism, outreach and good relations in the community and workplace. Enable the development of ministry among: youth and children; women; young adults; families. Provide marriage and counselling services. Provide support for local congregations in finance, health & safety and personnel issues. Develop strategic priorities in all-age mission in Ireland. Enable new church development and church planting. Support chaplaincy services in the Forces, Healthcare, Prisons, Universities and Colleges. Undertake overseas mission, develop partnerships with overseas Churches, send personnel overseas. Promote world development issues and facilitate thinking on issues of global concern. Deliver a social witness service to the wider community in partnership with appropriate organisations. Undertake policy development and administration of the Taking Care programme for the protection of children and vulnerable adults. Support a ministry to those with hearing impairment. | £27,296,095
<strong>Down And Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £24,914,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHRISTIAN EYE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1184337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184337)]<br>The Christian Eye Foundation is a Charity dedicated to helping the elderly and those in need in our community. We provide support to the elderly by cleaning their homes, helping them with shopping and other essential needs. We also support the homeless and low-income families with food, clothing and counselling sessions. We are based in Iver and mostly support people in the Buckinghamshire area. | £42,823
<strong>FAMILIES IN CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1007596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1007596)]<br>Families in Care provides independent Support, Advocacy, Counselling and Mindfulness for birth families involved in Child Protection and Care Proceedings. | £77,512
<strong>ROOM TO HEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1128857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128857)]<br>Room to Heal is a healing community for asylum seekers and refugees who have suffered torture and gross human rights violations. It provides therapeutic support groups,individual counselling/casework, and a range of creative activities, including a Mindfulness for trauma programme, a community gardening/social project, story-telling workshops, ESOL classes and rural community building retreats. | £311,889
<strong>Hear For You</strong> [Charity number: [SC044037](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044037)]<br>The organisation?s purposes are: 1.1 The saving of lives, specifically in connection with suicide prevention by offering in the Clydesdale area, but not limited to: 1.1.1  a local, face to face service that will allow people who are feeling suicidal or have had thoughts about suicide to be able to talk to someone qualified in counselling. 1.1.2 Meeting the needs and breaking the isolation of those thinking about suicide and those bereaved by suicide by offering one to one and group counselling, and 1.1.3 Offering a crisis response service to everyone in the Clydesdale area. 1.2 The advancement of the health of persons who have suffered suicide related bereavement, including but not restricted to spouses, partners, parents, children, colleagues, friends and neighbours, by providing, but not limited to: 1.2.1 providing a safe, confidential environment in which bereaved people can share their experiences and feelings, so giving and gaining support from each other, and 1.2.2 Offering holistic therapies to aid relaxation and healing. 1.3 The advancement of education by improving public awareness of the issues related to suicide. | £7,517
<strong>TIPTON CHRISTIAN CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1052764](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052764)]<br>To provide a lively church promoting the Christian faith, have provision for Toddlers, Kids, Youth and senior citzen groups. Also offer counselling and help with Employment and Skills advice and training. To promote local intrests and activites for all ages and serve in the local community by working with local agencies to promote community cohesion. Also help overseas projects in Africa (Zambia). | £38,848
<strong>FIREWEED</strong> [Charity number: [1187829](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187829)]<br>Providing services, information and advice to protect and preserve good physical and mental health among women and children, including counselling and signposting services.Advancing education and raising awareness of issues of violence, inequality and discrimination against women. | £2,346
<strong>Via Wings</strong> [Charity number: [NI106946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106946)]<br>Monthly food parcels to families in need. Help to find accommodation for homeless/evicted families. Practical help by distributing donated furniture and household items to create homes for those families. Provide a safe location for social gathering. Provide counselling and social support services to those in need, with grief, addiction, loneliness and in family breakdown situations. Carry out training for clients to prepare them for the general workplace. Work to train and encourage volunteers. | £466
<strong>Antrim Community Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI105548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105548)]<br>The advancement of religion. The advancement of citizenship or community development. The relief of this in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. The prevention or relief of poverty. The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity. HOW? Religious activities, welfare/benevolent, Advice/Advocacy/information, counselling/support, relief of poverty, grant making, human rights/equality, youth development, playgroup/after schools, overseas aid/famine relief, community development. WHO? Pre-school (0-5 years old), older people, parents, overseas/developing countries, youth (14-25 years old), unemployed/low income, volunteers, women, voluntary and community sectors. | £7,927
<strong>Shalom Life</strong> [Charity number: [NI107104](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107104)]<br>We are committed to the service of the local population and provide various services and events to all ages in the community such as: 1. A weekly service of worship each Sunday is open to the general public. 2. We provide the venue for the local Bulgarian Church Saturday service. 3. This includes regular Bible teaching for adults, and separate age-appropriate programmes for children and young people. 4. Regular meeting of small groups of people for fellowship and prayer. 5. Monday Drop In open to the general public for friendship, pastoral care and support, craft and other activities 6. Ongoing support for those struggling with addiction 7. Sign posting to Advice and Counselling Services 8. Programmes for children and young people which include games activities, arts & crafts activities, friendship opportunities and spiritual development. 9. A weekly mother and toddlers group 10. Saturday bread collection and distribution. 11. Distribution of Food Bank parcels, clothing or household furniture 12. We organise minor household repairs and maintenance and also help with transport issues for those in need. 13. We encourage people who attend to be involved in helping others in the community through volunteering at various organisations, we organise social events for the local community including Fun Days and outings We believe that the gospel of Jesus Christ, is a power that can change lives and bring a new sense of purpose and hope to believers irrespective of age, gender, background or culture. | £20,742
<strong>The Haven Caring Counselling Communication Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC032130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032130)]<br>To alleviate, physical, mental or financial distress or hardship of persons with cancer or life limiting illness, the family and friends of persons with cancer or life limiting illness, and persons bereaved through cancer or life limiting illness, and to provide education about cancer or life limiting illness to persons with cancer or life limiting illness, the family and fiiends of persons with cancer or life limiting illness, persons bereaved through cancer or life limiting illness and members of the public at large. | £443,459
