# Palliative care `HE307`

Palliative care is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

408 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.20% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(palliative|end[ -]of[ -]life|terminal(ly))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 86 | 0.12%
£10k - £100k | 92 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 35 | 0.16%
£250k - £500k | 12 | 0.11%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.25%
£1m - £10m | 104 | 1.16%
Over £10m | 46 | 2.11%
Total | 392 | 0.20%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 347 | 0.20%
oscr | 48 | 0.19%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 408 | 0.20%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Marie Curie</strong> [Charity number: [SC038731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038731)]<br>The Charity is established as a memorial to the late Marie Curie in lasting tribute to her life’s work, and in particular to her discovery of radium and its contribution in fighting the disease of cancer. The charity exists to serve all those with a terminal diagnosis, from cancer or other causes, their families and carers. The objects for which the charity is established for the public benefit are:  2.1.1 to provide and develop caring services, offering support, care and compassion through palliative care, advice and assistance for the benefit of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers.  2.1.2 to undertake and fund research into any aspect of the care and support of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers. and  2.1.3 to provide information, education and support to patients, their families, carers, those working in medical and other caring fields and the public regarding the care of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses. | £169,666,000
<strong>MARIE CURIE</strong> [Charity number: [207994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207994)]<br>Marie Curie is a UK charity dedicated to the care of people with terminal illnesses:Provide specialist care for the terminally illHelp and support families and carers of the terminally illResearch the best ways to care for the terminally illCampaign for the terminally ill to be able to die in their place of choice | £169,666,000
<strong>SUE RYDER</strong> [Charity number: [1052076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052076)]<br>Provide specialist palliative care in our hospices and in patients' homes.Provide health and social support via community services. Provide grief and bereavement support. | £106,110,000
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £106,110,000
<strong>SS. JOHN AND ELIZABETH CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [235822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-235822)]<br>To provide a hospital for the reception, care and treatment of patients without distinction and, in particular, for patients requiring palliative care, and to serve the sick and dying, and to care for the physical, spiritual and emotional needs of patients irrespective of nationality or religion. | £66,229,000
<strong>Southern Hospice Group</strong> [Charity number: [256789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-256789)]<br>Providing end of life care for adults in our local community, in their home or at our adult hospice - St Barnabas House and caring for life limited children throughout Sussex at our children's hospice - Chestnut Tree House. | £33,031,000
<strong>ST CHRISTOPHERS HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [210667](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210667)]<br>St Christopher's Hospice exists to promote and provide skilled and compassionate palliative care of the highest quality. This high quality service is delivered to over 2,000 dying individuals and their families, friends and carers every year. We share our skills and expertise with others in the field through our extensive education and training programme and research into improving care. | £27,541,000
<strong>PHYLLIS TUCKWELL MEMORIAL HOSPICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [264501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-264501)]<br>Phyllis Tuckwell Hospice Care (Phyllis Tuckwell Memorial Hospice Ltd) provides specialist supportive and end of life care to adult patients, their carers and families, living with an advanced or terminal illness, including cancer, neurological conditions, heart and lung disease, etc | £19,181,855
<strong>Northern Ireland Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [NI102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102337)]<br>We have an adult inpatient unit comprising 17 beds at Somerton Road. The beds are used to provide end of life and respite care to patients suffering from life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses, such as cancer. The unit also provides day care facilities and social work and chaplaincy help for patients and their families. Our specialist palliative care nurses and hospice at home nurses also provide care in patient's own homes. Our children's service has a ten-bedded inpatient unit at Horizon House. This provides for both children with complex needs to enjoy respite care, but family accommodation enables parents and siblings to stay with them. Again many of these children have life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses. Our education department has a course syllabus used by staff and outside allied healthcare professionals. Training for doctors is also provided, with doctors coming to work with us from Health Trusts, for six month periods at a time. Research is also carried out in collaboration with other hospices and educational establishments such as the University of Ulster. | £19,097,679
<strong>PRINCESS ALICE HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1010930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010930)]<br>As specialists in end of life care, our primary objective is the care and support of our patients, their families and their friends. This takes place in both our extensive community and within our purpose built hospice. Education and research are important secondary objectives in our work, and like our patient care they are supported through our fundraising activities and our high street shops. | £19,062,659


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>DOUGLAS MACMILLAN HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1071613](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071613)]<br>To promote holistic care for those with a limited life expectancy, whose disease has entered the palliative phase, respecting their individuality & choice.  Support is provided at home, as an In/Out-patient or via Day Therapy, ensuring the best possible quality of life. Our services aim to meet the needs of our patients' and carers at all stages of their journey. | £18,956,389
<strong>KIDS IN NEED</strong> [Charity number: [1049318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049318)]<br>Raising funds to grant wishes to children aged 3-19years who are terminally or seriously ill or have disabilities | £29,887
<strong>KHAN FOUNDATION BANGLADESH</strong> [Charity number: [1195072](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195072)]<br>The following are projects we are particularly keen to complete:- To install tube wells and provide people with convenient access to clean and safe water. - To distribute food packages throughout the year to end hunger, malnutrition and other compounding health problems. To provide essential medical assistance to terminally ill patients and save lives. Provide safe and secure accommodation | £24,825
<strong>Scottish Partnership For Palliative Care</strong> [Charity number: [SC017979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017979)]<br>The Scottish Partnership for Palliative Care is an umbrella and representative organisation which, through a collaborative approach, supports and contributes to the development and strategic direction of palliative care in Scotland. The company's objects are to improve the experiences of people in Scotland in relation to declining health, death, dying, and bereavement, including by improving the quality and provision of palliative care and end of life care. | £486,420
<strong>SEOLCEG</strong> [Charity number: [1206884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206884)]<br>THE FOLLOWING OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT:1.THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT OF PERSONS SUFFERING FROM PHYSICAL ILLNESS OF ANY DESCRIPTION IN GUYANA IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THOSE SUFFERING FROM A LIFE LIMITING ILLNESS, AND THOSE PEOPLE THAT NEED PALLIATIVE OR END OF LIFE CARE (EOLC) SUPPORT THROUGH THE PROVISION OF SUCH ASSISTANCE AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO MEDICAL TREATMENT AND PURCHASING GOODS, ITEMS TO HELP WITH THEIR CARE;2.TO PRESERVE AND PROTECT THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF THOSE CARING FOR PEOPLE WITH A LIFE LIMITING ILLNESS THROUGH SUCH SUPPORT AS THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING THE CARERS WITH A BREAK FROM THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES OF CARING; AND 3.TO RELIEVE SICKNESS BY ADVANCING HEALTH EDUCATION THROUGH THE PROVISION OF TRAINING, INFORMATION, AND ADVICE TO THE PUBLIC AND TO HEALTH PROFESSIONALS IN GUYANA AND THE UK IN ORDER TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF EOLC FOR PEOPLE SUFFERING FROM A LIFE LIMITING ILLNESS.NOTHING IN THIS CONSTITUTION SHALL AUTHORISE AN APPLICATION OF THE PROPERTY OF THE CIO FOR THE PURPOSES WHICH ARE NOT CHARITABLE IN ACCORDANCE WITH [SECTION 7 OF THE CHARITIES AND TRUSTEE INVESTMENT (SCOTLAND) ACT 2005] AND [SECTION 2 OF THE CHARITIES ACT (NORTHERN IRELAND) 2008]. | 
<strong>INTERNATIONAL TRUST FOR TERMINAL AND INCURABLE DISEASES (I T T I D)</strong> [Charity number: [327506](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327506)]<br>The trust continues to finance homoepathic and alternative medical treatment for terminally ill and incurable patients.  A clinic employing a qualified homoepathic practitioner was run throughout the year and free treatment was given to deserving cases. | £788
<strong>THE END OF LIFE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1072958](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072958)]<br>To promote the delivery of high quality palliative care education in both theory and practice, which will positively influence palliative care, wherever it might be given. To transform End of Life experience and care. | £1,159,738
<strong>THE P B DUMBELL CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [232770](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232770)]<br>The charity continues to support local charities in the West Midlands area, specifically around mental health, end of life support, young people and homelessness.The trustees do not make grants for educational purposes.Applications are reviewed twice yearly, in February and August. | £52,655
<strong>HOBDEN FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1201349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201349)]<br>The Trustees have identified the following areas as potential priorities for the Charity; the advancement of the Christian religion, including Christian organisations working closely with young people and the advancement of health and relief of those in need by reason of ill-health through the support for hospices providing end of life care. | £170,012
<strong>Namaste Care Education and Resources</strong> [Charity number: [SC052410](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052410)]<br>3 The organisation's purposes are:  (a) Advancement of education (and its sustainability) for staff and family caring for people with advanced dementia in care homes, community orientated organisations and 'at home' formal/informal carers. NEAR will provide an education programme and supporting resources that will meet all of the needs set out below.  - To provide education and resources to professional health and social care staff supporting people with advanced and end-stage dementia within institutional settings (such as care home, hospices or hospital), or at home. In time we hope to extend educational support to unpaid carers of people with advanced and end-stage dementia.  - Raise awareness of the Namaste Care programme for people with advanced and end-stage dementia   - a system of care demonstrated through research to improve experiences of people living and dying with advanced and end stage dementia.  (b) Improving the health (physical, psycho-social, spiritual and emotional) of people with advanced dementia living and dying in care homes/care at home communicating through the senses, nutrition, hydration, connection with others, which all underpin the programme  (c) Providing a programme designed to promote equality and diversity for people with advanced dementia through involvement within their community to overcome the inability to participate in normal activities. NEAR will promote equality, diversity and inclusion for people with advanced and end-stage dementia through raising awareness around people living with advanced dementia being amongst the highest population of inequality and discrimination globally. Having a cognitive disability that is not yet widely understood has led to the fundamental psycho-social and spiritual needs of people with advanced dementia currently not being met. By educating the people that care for those living with advanced dementia, NEAR's programme educates staff and unpaid carers in this cognitive disability, raising awareness. of the level of discrimination currently afforded to those living with advanced dementia and provides valuable information, resources and tools to be able to provide equality and inclusion to them. Also, there are inequalities within palliative and end of life care for this group, and improving knowledge and skills of professional health and social care staff to change practices around under-recognition and treatment of pain and agitation, communication challenges and lack of appropriate care in the last phase of life.  (D) The programme provides relief of isolation and loneliness for those with advanced dementia through daily interaction with people providing Namaste Care | £4,246
