# Health and wellbeing `HE305`

Health and wellbeing is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

2,218 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.09% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(healthy (lifestyle|living|eating|diet)|health and wellbeing|wellbeing and health|meditation|mindfull?ness)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 503 | 0.71%
£10k - £100k | 694 | 0.99%
£100k - £250k | 318 | 1.44%
£250k - £500k | 201 | 1.86%
£500k - £1m | 112 | 1.67%
£1m - £10m | 130 | 1.44%
Over £10m | 14 | 0.64%
Total | 1,972 | 1.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,436 | 0.84%
oscr | 625 | 2.53%
ccni | 157 | 2.19%
Total | 2,218 | 1.09%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>We Are With You</strong> [Charity number: [1001957](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001957)]<br>PROVIDES A RANGE OF SERVICES FOR DRUG AND ALCOHOL MISUSERS AND THEIR FAMILIES IN COMMUNTY AND PRISON ENVIRONMENTS. FROM EDUCATION AND PREVENTION TO COMMUNITY SERVICES AND RESIDENTIAL REHABILIATION.WE ALSO SUPORT THE MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING OF PEOPLE WITH MENTAL HEALTH DIFFICULITIES | £80,609,000
<strong>Scottish Autism</strong> [Charity number: [SC009068](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009068)]<br>The objects of the Company shall be the advancement of education, health and wellbeing, equality of opportunity and the relief of disadvantage of people living with an autism spectrum condition and related conditions. | £41,103,137
<strong>Edinburgh Leisure</strong> [Charity number: [SC027450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC027450)]<br>To provide or assist in the provision of, facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare for the general public and in particular in connection with the local authority area of The City of Edinburgh as defined in the Local Government etc. (Scotland) Act 1994 (hereinafter referred to as 'the Community') with the object of improving the conditions of life for the Community. and To provide, whilst providing or assisting in the provision of such facilities for the Community, special facilities for persons who by reason of their youth, infirmity or disability, poverty or social and economic circumstances may need special facilities. and To promote good health among the Community through health education directed to the part which healthy eating and standards of nutrition together with exercise play in the maintenance of good health'. | £39,374,000
<strong>Soil Association Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC039168](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039168)]<br>(a) To advance the education of the public by promoting a full understanding of the vital relationship between the health of the soil, plants, animals, people and the environment. (b) To advance the education of the public by carrying out research (and disseminating the results) into agricultural and forestry production methods and the effects of these methods on the quality of food and other outputs on human health and the environment. (c) To preserve, conserve and protect the environment through the prudent use of natural resources, including by the promotion of organic and sustainable farming techniques. (d) To promote and enhance human health through providing information and advice in relation to healthy eating and nutrition. (e) To promote high standards in the care and welfare of farm animals to prevent cruelty to and suffering by farm animals. | £21,508,000
<strong>Ben - Motor and Allied Trades Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039842](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039842)]<br>3.1 The Objects of the Charity are the prevention and relief of distress, sickness and poor health (whether mental or physical) and financial hardship by the provision of health and wellbeing services including advice, financial support and grants, health and wellness training, and information and literature  3.1.1 primarily to those persons who are resident in the Area of Benefit (defined below). and  3.1.2 who are working or who have worked in a qualifying trade of industry (defined below). or   3.1.3 who are close dependants (defined below) of any person who satisfies the criteria in articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3.  and persons who fall within the criteria in articles 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 are the Primary beneficiaries  3.1.4 and otherwise for the benefit of any persons who are not Primary Beneficiaries, but who are resident in the Area of Benefit  For the purposes of these objects:  3.2 the Area of Benefit shall mean England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland  3.3 a qualifying trade or industry shall mean motor engineering and allied trades and industries, including any trade business occupation profession or association which provides financial, insurance or other services or which originates or publishes material relating to those trades or industries or whose activities or any of them are ancillary to or connected with those trades or industries. The term ‘motor, engineering and allied trades and industries’ shall include any individual or body engaged in the manufacture, sale, repair or service of commercial vehicles, garage and service equipment, motor cars and coaches, motor bicycles, lubricants or propulsion fuel for any of them and the component parts of any of them or, in the case of an individual or body only partly so engaged, only those engaged solely in those activities. and  3.4 a close dependant shall mean an individual who relies on a person who satisfies the criteria in articles 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 for financial or other support and includes the spouse or partner, parent, child, sibling, grandparent or grandchild (by blood or marriage) of that person.   | £20,533,000
<strong>SARJUDAS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [273425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273425)]<br>Sarjudas Foundation is dedicated to fulfilling the spiritual, cultural and social needs of the people while promoting inner peace and harmony between individuals, within families, and amongst diverse communities. Community work includes Nurturing Children, Promoting Healthy Living, Fostering Education, Encouraging Sports, Serving the Community and Celebrating Hinduism. | £18,839,735
<strong>ENABLE LEISURE AND CULTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1172345](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172345)]<br>As a non-profit distributing organisation we work in partnerships with councils, charities and other bodies to deliver health, leisure and community services that enrich people's lives.We deliver high quality community services including managing local parks, staging innovative public and private events, running sports and local facilities and organising health and wellbeing programmes. | £18,066,255
<strong>Compass - Services to Improve Health and Wellbeing</strong> [Charity number: [518048](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-518048)]<br>Provides treatment and support services to drug users and their families | £16,335,510
<strong>NORTH LONDON HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [285300](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-285300)]<br>The provision of specialist palliative care in inpatient, day care in health and wellbeing centre and community settings.Education and training of healthcare professionals and partnerships with other organisations that share our objects also form an important part of our work. | £14,740,183
<strong>TAMESIDE SPORTS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1074808](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074808)]<br>To provide or assist in the provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time occupation for the general public or in conjunction with Tameside Metropolitan Borough Council  and its neighbourhood in the interests of social welfare,health and wellbeing. | £14,490,375


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Muintir Na Mointeach Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI102149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102149)]<br>Muintir na Mointeach is a community based group which works from the Washingbay Healthy Living Community Centre based in the Washingbay area of Co. Tyrone. The group provides and manages this facility for the delivery of educational activities, Arts, culture, heritage, social activity,health and wellbeing, environmental improvements and leisure and recreational activities which it also organizes. The group provides opportunities through training to develop the capacity and skills of the members of the area and in particular those deemed to be from social and economically disadvantaged communities of Washingbay and the surrounding area. Activities and classes include Art, story telling and music sessions, children's Irish dancing, health information sessions, farming information and talks, cultural and language classes,vintage rallies, historical and reminiscence, yoga, keep fit, bowls, martial arts and Gaelic games. The centre is also used for family occasions to include anniversary parties/dinners, birthday celebrations. The group also provide for walking, cycling and boating safety sessions. Muintir na Mointeach has a strong environmental friendly ethos, it demonstrates renewable energy efficiencies and develops and advances environmental and regeneration projects in the area along the SW shores of Lough Neagh, the Washingbay Wetlands park and the Dungannon School lands. The group promotes community development approaches to local issues and aims to increase the participation of as many local people and visitors in community activity. Muintir na Mointeach will also promote such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined. | £17,999
<strong>NAM YANG BRIGHTON</strong> [Charity number: [1207778](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207778)]<br>We provide accessible Chinese martial arts, mindfulness and community programmes in Brighton &amp; Hove. We support people facing hardship, including refugees and those with poor mental health, SEN adults and children promoting wellbeing, confidence and inclusion. No one is turned away due to financial restraints. | £135,652
<strong>Friends Of St Clement's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037740](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037740)]<br>The advancement of education for pupils of St Clement's, Dingwall School by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities and services (not required to be provided by the local education authority).  The advancement of participation in sport, exercise and healthy eating for pupils of St Clement's, Dingwall School by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities, training and services. | £30
<strong>SNOWDONIA DONKEYS</strong> [Charity number: [1176577](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176577)]<br>Snowdonia Donkeys was established in 2013 to promote health and well-being through working and walking with donkeys in the local environment of North Wales. It is our mission to be a centre of excellence for the promotion of health and wellbeing of people and donkeys. | £133,281
<strong>Supporting Our Community (SOC)</strong> [Charity number: [SC049428](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049428)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To advance provision of recreational facilities and activities through establishing a social hub and delivering a range of recreational activities that will allow the local community to meet and pursue a host of hobbies, pastimes and interests. 4.2 To advance health through providing a range of mental health support services in order to help people maintain and/or improve their mental health and wellbeing. | £119,891
<strong>Fivemiletown Half Door Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI100641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100641)]<br>Fivemiletown Half Door Club provides a group for older people to mix socially once per week and provides opportunities, information sessions and classes for older people in the Fivemiletown area on: recreational activities, social activities, healthy eating, benefits, exercise and practical assistance. | £871
<strong>U-Evolve</strong> [Charity number: [SC045864](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045864)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To advance both access and provision of Education to, in the main but not exclusively, young people and children their families and carers (the 'Beneficiaries'). This will include creating formal and informal education opportunities for Beneficiaries in their transition to adulthood or in education. This will include the development of their emotional intelligence, self-care skills and development of belief in themselves through the provision of coaching, mentoring and other related methodologies. This will allow them to access their latent strengths, talents, capabilities and achieve their aspirations  4.2 To advance Beneficiaries care of their own health through teaching them mindfulness practices and using positive psychology to support their emotional and mental health and wellbeing thereby building personal resilience and capacity to deal with different situations and transitions in education and beyond. 4.3 The advancement of citizenship through an asset building approach in areas of deprivation through working with community members  to develop their skills so that they then become enablers and advocates for other community members. 4.4 To generally advance the relief and assistance of those Beneficiaries in need of  support and assistance by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. Priority areas will be areas where Beneficiaries are in living in multiple deprivation and have limited access to resources to overcome barriers to them maximising their access and development of their education, health and wellbeing. | £238,820
<strong>Ulster Wildlife Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101848)]<br>Ulster Wildlife Trust is a nature conservation organisation, caring for wildlife and campaigning on wildlife issues in Northern Ireland. We do this through our work in: • Restoring and protecting natural biodiversity and key species, habitats and ecosystems through the management of nature reserves throughout Northern Ireland. This includes the physical management of the reserves, combating the threat to native wildlife by invasive species and species and habitat monitoring activities. These reserves have been recognised at regional national and international levels. • Inspiring people to champion wildlife and value nature by carrying out a variety of education and community engagement projects, both for children and adults focusing on both land and marine environments. Tangible benefits are evidenced through educational programmes and project work we run in partnership with organizations such as Schools, Councils, Caring Breaks and Special Schools. • Providing volunteering opportunities across the organisation, through work on our reserves and other projects. Volunteers work with us at education and awareness raising events and volunteers also make a significant contribution to our policy and research work. Volunteers have reported increased confidence and enhanced self-esteem. Volunteers also reported they had gained new skills and knowledge and felt that their employment prospects had been enhanced. • Promoting awareness, knowledge and appreciation of the natural environment through a variety of events and project based work on key species and habitats. • Promoting awareness of health and wellbeing through activities linked to the natural environment through education and volunteering work. We provide public access on the majority of the reserves we own and manage and deliver programmes and activities linked to health and well being e.g. Natural World Challenge for adults with learning disabilities, Parklife educational sessions. | £3,255,687
<strong>FLAIR (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC051097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051097)]<br>Purposes  4 The organisation's purposes are:  4.1 the advancement of citizenship and community development and in furtherance of this  4.1.1 using the principles of asset based community development, residents in South Ayrshire will be supported to discover their inner flair, skills and interests and develop this into something meaningful for individuals and communities.  4.1.2 Through this, residents will  -     Be better connected into a community   Have increased social connectedness   Develop support networks   Be supported to achieve their aims for their own community   Improve health and wellbeing which will allow them to     flourish | £73
<strong>African Women Empowered Network (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC054220](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054220)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are: (a) To support, inspire, empower and promote the interest of African/ ethnic minority women, children and their families to realise their life aspirations, and increase their self-determination by removing structural barriers that limit their economic and social advancement. We will deliver mentorship programmes with a focus on personal growth, skill-building, and access to opportunities. (b) To support employability by equipping African/ethnic minority women with the competencies they need to overcome employment barriers and thrive in the modern workforce across Scotland amid at closing gaps in employment outcomes by enhancing readiness for competitive job markets. We will host career-readiness sessions to equip women with targeted tools to navigate job markets.  (c) To promote health and wellbeing among individuals and families with culturally sensitive approach through multifaceted workshops and campaigns focussed at African/ethnic minority communities in Scotland to address health inequalities experienced by marginalised communities through education that respects cultural nuances. We will run health promotion campaigns and workshops addressing mental health, nutrition, and maternal well-being, tailored to African and minority ethnic cultural contexts. (d) To build stronger communities by promoting cohesion, cultural integration and strengthen relationship by holding free and open multi-cultural events across communities in Scotland to celebrate diversity, inclusion and reduce loneliness and social isolation. We will organise inclusive community events, such as multicultural festivals and intergenerational storytelling forums, and community get together to reduce loneliness and foster belonging by encouraging intercultural dialogue/engagement and community relationship-building. (e) To tackle poverty and reduce inequality of community wealth distribution by engaging with local authorities and agencies and advocating fair and equitable access to timely information and resources to the underrepresented and adversely racialised minoritised communities across Scotland to address the systemic poverty and ensure equitable access to vital services and opportunities. (f) To stimulate entrepreneurship among African/ethnic minority women to promote economic growth by offering regular workshops and connecting with successful women entrepreneurs for mentorship and coaching support and guidance. We will facilitate business incubators and entrepreneurship bootcamps, connecting women with successful mentors and peer networks to grow the number of women-led businesses and promote financial independence among ethnic minority populations. (g) To promote equal representation of African/ethnic minority women in leadership across all sectors of the Scottish economy by holding workshops directed at leadership skills-building, job-shadowing, volunteering, training, networking and creating visibility. We will also deliver leadership training programmes, including shadowing placements, public speaking workshops, and networking events to increase visibility of ethnic minority women in decision-making spaces.  (h) To promote race equality and anti-racism education by engaging with Schools, local Councils and organisations including the Scottish Government in order to build a society where everyone is respected, valued and loved equally. We will collaborate with schools and public institutions to develop anti-racist educational workshops and campaigns that challenge discrimination and promote systemic change. This will help to actively dismantle racism through education and policy engagement that centres lived experiences and community voices.  | 
