# Ambulance service `HE302`

Ambulance service is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

364 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.18% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(ambulances?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 194 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 83 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 15 | 0.08%
£250k - £500k | 14 | 0.16%
£500k - £1m | 3 | 0.05%
£1m - £10m | 20 | 0.26%
Over £10m | 11 | 0.63%
Total | 340 | 0.18%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 311 | 0.18%
oscr | 41 | 0.16%
ccni | 12 | 0.17%
Total | 364 | 0.18%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PRIORY OF ENGLAND AND THE ISLANDS OF THE MOST VENERABLE ORDER OF THE HOSPITAL OF ST. JOHN OF JERUSALEM</strong> [Charity number: [1077265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077265)]<br>Provide First Aid Training, First Aid Services, Ambulance Services, Youth Services | £92,300,000
<strong>THE AIR AMBULANCE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1098874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098874)]<br>Operator of two Helicopter Emergency Services, and the Children's Air Ambulance transfer service. | £25,375,000
<strong>ESSEX & HERTS AIR AMBULANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1108989](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108989)]<br>To provide pre hospital care mainly with a Helicopter Emergency Medical Service, supported by rapid response vehicles. | £17,507,780
<strong>Air Ambulance Charity Kent Surrey Sussex</strong> [Charity number: [1021367](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021367)]<br>Air Ambulance service in South East England and surrounding areas. | £17,435,490
<strong>EAST ANGLIAN AIR AMBULANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1083876](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083876)]<br>The relief of sickness and injury  by the provision of emergency medical services and equipment and in particular by the provision of a helicopter air ambulance service or other emergency transportation wholly or mainly within the area served by the East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust. | £14,233,440
<strong>LONDON'S AIR AMBULANCE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [801013](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801013)]<br>The relief of sickness and physical injury by the provision of emergency medical services and equipment and in particular by the provision of a helicopter ambulance service or other emergency transport.The provision of training, research and education in the field of pre-hospital medicine for the treatment and/or prevention of sickness and physical injury. | £14,132,033
<strong>MIDLANDS AIR AMBULANCE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1143118](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143118)]<br>Midlands Air Ambulance Charity (registered charity number 1143118), formerly known as County Air Ambulance (1001064). The charity's mission is to provide patients with pre-hospital care and lifesaving intervention through its helicopter-led emergency medical services (HEMS).The charity covers Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, the West Midlands and Worcestershire. | £13,913,000
<strong>WELSH AIR AMBULANCE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1083645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083645)]<br>The charity objects are specifically restricted to the following:"the relief of sickness and injury and the protection of human life by the provision and support of both road vehicles and air ambulances in Wales" | £13,157,000
<strong>DEVON AIR AMBULANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1077998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077998)]<br>Devon Air Ambulance Trust is the charity that funds and operates Devon?s Air Ambulance service.The service is provided free at the point of need, to anyone and everyone in Devon and neighbouring counties, resident or visitor; based on clinical need, urgency, accessibility and distance to the most appropriate hospital for the clinical needs of the patient. | £11,490,000
<strong>NORTH WEST AIR AMBULANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1075641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1075641)]<br>The North West Air Ambulance Charity helicopters and HEMS (Helicopter Emergency Medical Service) response vehicles operate 365 days a year, with doctors and HEMS paramedics on board providing enhanced pre-hospital care and hospital transfers to patients across the entire North West. The charity is dedicated to the conservation and preservation of life, through services of an air ambulance. | £10,424,700


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>VALE AND FOSSEWAY RESPONDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1115596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115596)]<br>Provision of first respose service to medical emergencies under the direction of East Midlands Ambulance Service NHS Trust. Provision of training for medical emergencies. | £2,092
<strong>WILDLIFE RESCUE AND AMBULANCE SERVICE (ENFIELD)</strong> [Charity number: [1060452](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060452)]<br>Rescue & rehabilitation of wild animals and birds. Gives work experience to youngsters & offers voluntary work to all. | £254,151
<strong>Mid Deeside Community First Responders</strong> [Charity number: [SC037411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037411)]<br>Tarland & Mid Deeside Community First Responders objectives are the protection and preservation of human life and the relief of sickness in persons residing in Tarland & Mid Deeside and its environs (defined from time to time in collaboration with surrounding Community First Responder groups), hereinafter to be called the area of benefit, in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing by responding to emergency calls as determined by the Ambulance Control Centre triage arrangements extant at the time. We will operate under the governance systems of the Scottish Ambulance Service (SAS) under whose structures and indemnity arrangements we fall.   | £3,091
<strong>DINAS POWYS VOLUNTARY CONCERN</strong> [Charity number: [502496](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-502496)]<br>Dinas Powys Voluntary Concern provides a service to individuals, groups and organisations, in particular the elderly and people with disabilities. It does this by providing a community resource centre, running a wellbeing and befriending scheme, providing and maintaining a minibus-ambulance, publishing a free newsletter and community directory, offering support to local voluntary organisations. | £50,802
<strong>Neilston & Uplawmoor First Responders SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050011](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050011)]<br>The charitable purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') is the saving of lives. In furtherance of this purpose, the organisation shall:- provide initial care ahead of the emergency ambulance response to individuals in respiratory or cardiac arrest, or who are unconscious, or experiencing a serious or life-threatening medical condition;  provide awareness sessions within the community that aim to teach life-saving skills and the use of public access defibrillators; encourage wider participation by the general public in fund-raising initiatives to increase the number and availability of public access defibrillators.  | £26,637
<strong>ROTARY CLUB OF MAIDENHEAD THAMES TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1001219](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001219)]<br>Support of Local good causes, especially children, special needs children and the elderly. International charities supported by Rotary International and through contact from other Rotary Clubs.Support of Regional Charities, such as Air Ambulance and the Thames Valley Adventure Playground. | £6,439
<strong>AMBER COMMUNITY FIRST RESPONDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1172627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172627)]<br>The relief of sickness and the preservation of life by providing trained volunteers to attend medical emergencies as directed by the East Midlands Ambulance Service.' | £6,876
<strong>Derry And Raphoe Mothers' Union</strong> [Charity number: [NI100834](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100834)]<br>The Mothers’ Union helps in providing the following overseas: • Literacy and Development Programmes Overseas • Volunteers in Community Projects • Relief in Times of Disaster • Parenting Programme Locally we provide through Diocesan Projects • There is an on-going supply of emergency toiletries to the four main hospitals in the joint dioceses. • Knitwear is made for new-born and premature babies and supplied to all local Hospitals. • Volunteers help in the Foyle Child Contact Centre. • Branch projects are varied and include emergency supplies to Women’s Aid Centres. • Christmas boxes are collected for disadvantaged children overseas. • Trauma Teddies are knitted by members and are distributed to the A & E Departments in all local hospitals, through the Ambulance Service and Fire Brigade. These Teddies provide comfort to children who are in a traumatic situation. • Prayer Shawls are knitted and distributed to housebound members. Parenting Facilitators In the Derry and Raphoe Dioceses, we have three trained facilitators: Their role is to support and guide parents within a group. Through this guidance parents then learn to use respectful communication skills with their children. Good parenting skills are an important part of family life and a constant learning process. Young Families The young families’ coordinator organises events to support young couples in their married life and facilitates families to come together and enjoy activities organised by the Mothers’ Union. The Social Policy Unit works to affirm our faith and action as Christians through informing ourselves of community issues, suggesting practical initiatives and contributing to local, governmental and United Nation policies especially relating to women | £27,620
<strong>Sos Bus Ni</strong> [Charity number: [NI100247](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100247)]<br>SOS Bus NI operate two buses as mobile field hospitals in Northern Ireland which are equipped with a fully functioning medical centre designed by the Northern Ireland Ambulance Service. These buses are attended by trained volunteers and medical staff to ensure that professional caring services are delivered to the emotionally and/or physical vulnerable. They provide: • Professional medical attention • Immediate SOS transportation to hospital when appropriate • Conveyance home or to other place of safety by SOS transport • Conveyance home or to other place of safety by one of our partnering taxi services • Emotional care and listening ear services • Signposting to statutory service providers • Refreshments - tea, coffee, soup and food Beneficiaries include: • Victims of non-violent and violent crime • The homeless and the lonely • Major/minor accidental injuries • Those who have over indulged in alcohol and/or drugs • Those becoming isolated, lost or separated from friends • The Suicidal In addition to their core services: • Schools Education & Empowerment Partnership (SEEP) • Night Time Volunteer Steering Group, Belfast city centre (NTVSG) | £196,023
<strong>NORTH EAST AMBULANCE SERVICE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1078575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1078575)]<br>The main purpose of the charitable funds held on trust is to apply income for any charitable purpose relating to the National Health Service wholly or mainly for the services provided by the North East Ambulance Service | £190,279
