# Surgery `HE309`

Surgery is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](/data/ukcat/HE) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

657 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.32% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(surgery|surgical|surgeries|surgeons?)`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`Local Police Surgery|doctor'?s? surgery|gp surger|the surgery`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 258 | 0.34%
£10k - £100k | 197 | 0.29%
£100k - £250k | 54 | 0.26%
£250k - £500k | 33 | 0.34%
£500k - £1m | 24 | 0.39%
£1m - £10m | 42 | 0.49%
Over £10m | 13 | 0.64%
Total | 621 | 0.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 571 | 0.34%
oscr | 74 | 0.30%
ccni | 12 | 0.17%
Total | 657 | 0.32%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>People's Dispensary For Sick Animals</strong> [Charity number: [SC037585](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037585)]<br>(4) The objects of the Society are– a) the provision of free medical or surgical treatment, or such treatment at reduced charges, to animals belonging to persons who are unable to afford the services of a veterinary surgeon.  b) the prevention of suffering of animals by the provision of preventative treatment, care and advice (whether free, at a reduced charge or at full charge).  c) the education of the public in matters concerning animal health and welfare in general.  d) the advancement of animal welfare for the public benefit by any   other means.’   | £106,648,000
<strong>THE BENENDEN HOSPITAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1065995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065995)]<br>The principal object of The Benenden Hospital Trust is the relief of hardship caused by sickness, infirmity, disability, or any medical condition by the provision of surgical and medical treatment and nursing care.The charity is the main provider of surgical and medical treatment to members and nominees of The Benenden Healthcare Society Limited. Membership is open to all. | £43,082,000
<strong>HORDER HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1046624](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1046624)]<br>Horder Healthcare operates a hospital for patients requiring orthopaedic surgery and musculoskeletal services which is supported by a number of outreach centres in the South East.  It owns and operates a second hospital, also in the South East, which delivers maxillofacial, plastic reconstruction surgery and ophthalmology. | £39,575,000
<strong>Blind Veterans UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039411)]<br>3.1 To provide for the medical or surgical treatment, re-education, training in one or more trade or trades, settlement and permanent welfare of.- 3.1.1 Members or former members of the armed forces both men and women blinded from whatever cause whether or not connected in any way with service in the armed forces. 3.1.2 Other persons both men and women not being members or, former members of the armed forces blinded in or as a consequence of any war or warlike operations in which the forces of the Crown may be at any time engaged or any service connected with or subsidiary to such war or warlike operations or by or as a consequence of enemy action in the course of any such war or warlike operations (all such persons being hereinafter referred to as 'Beneficiaries') and so that for the purposes of this memorandum the word 'blinded' shall extend to all cases in which the sight has been so impaired that special care and training are required and all cases in which the sight is endangered so long as the cause of the danger continues. 3.2 To provide allowances or other assistance for any wife widow husband widower child or dependant of a Beneficiary who may be in need of assistance or any person who shall have kept house for or nursed or otherwise rendered exceptional service to or have been dependent upon a Beneficiary and may after the death of such Beneficiary be in need of assistance. | £37,952,000
<strong>ROYAL COLLEGE OF SURGEONS OF ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [212808](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212808)]<br>The College is involved in a wide range of activities that influence and support the professional development of surgeons and the delivery of surgical services. These activities include monitoring the progress of trainees; running examinations for trainees; running courses for surgeons throughout their career; and awarding research fellowships. | £28,084,000
<strong>Society of Jesus Trust of 1929 for Roman Catholic Purposes</strong> [Charity number: [SC040490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040490)]<br>The provision maintenance and upkeep of churches public chapels and presbyteries belonging to or connected with the Roman Catholic Church in Great Britain: The provision maintenance and carrying on of the religious services of the said Church in such churches and public chapels or others of a like character:The provision maintenance and upkeep of houses of Study Halls and Colleges for the education and training of Priests and persons desirous of becoming Priests of the said Church: The maintenance and support of and the provision of medical and surgical aid for infirm and aged Priests and clerics of the same Church and the burial of deceased Priests and Clerics of the same Church: The provision of necessary holidays and rest of Priests and Clerics of the said Church engaged in active work for the purposes thereof but so that contributions made by the Trustees under this and the preceding sub-clause shall be made only to or in respect of persons whose own means (if any) are in the opinion of the Trustees inadequate for such purposes: The relief of poor persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion in Great Britain or nearly related to Priests or Clerics of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Schools and Colleges for the general education both religious and secular or religious or secular of children and young persons members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Homes for infirm and aged Priests and Clerics of the said Church being in the opinion of the Trustees without adequate means of support and of Almshouses for infirm and aged poor persons being, members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Rest and Retreat house for the instructing in the Doctrines of the Roman Catholic Religion of members of the said Church MAXIUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY. | £27,959,000
<strong>The Ayrshire Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC011390](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011390)]<br>The principal objects for which the Company is established are:- To provide specialist palliative care and services to people and families affected by life-limiting illness and to promote the advancement of palliative care and end of life care and to promote the hospice movement, all whether in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or elsewhere in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining Hospices in Scotland and by providing palliative nursing, medical, allied healthcare professionals and other supportive care services to any person (without regard to religion, race, creed, gender or sexual orientation) who is (at any age) diagnosed with a life limiting condition and by providing medical or other treatment services and attention for any such person anywhere (including the patient’s home). (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or life limiting illnesses and the provision of specialist palliative and end of life care. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied health or social services, or employed or volunteering to work for the Company and its associated partner agencies. This may also include members of the community in a caring role. (D) By providing and assisting as required the provision of multi-faith religious belief support and by providing pastoral care services for the spiritual welfare and support of patients, carers and relatives and friends of patients and carers and those employed or volunteering to work for the Company but also the wider community. (E) By providing counselling services and practical care and support for patients and carers, relatives and friends of patients and carers for those employed or volunteering to work for the Company or to any other person of any age impacted by the death of a family member. (F) By operating as a charity raising funds by any legal and appropriate means. | £13,811,320
<strong>THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF MEDICINE</strong> [Charity number: [206219](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206219)]<br>1. Broad range of educational activities/opportunities for doctors, dentists and veterinary surgeons, including students, and for allied healthcare professionals.2. Exchange of information/ideas on medicine, within the health professions and with public opinion.3. Publish medical books, and distance learning materials.4. Maintain one of the largest medical libraries in Europe. | £12,164,000
<strong>UK-MED</strong> [Charity number: [1166956](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166956)]<br>UK-Med provides emergency medical care in the aftermath of large and sudden-onset disasters. UK-Med also works with colleagues in disaster-prone countries to increase their medical and surgical skills and knowledge, developing capacity to respond to disasters in their own country and region. | £11,713,293
<strong>EUROPEAN SOCIETY OF CATARACT AND REFRACTIVE SURGEONS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1066532](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1066532)]<br>The activities of the Company include the promotion of education and research in the field of implant and refractive surgery and the study and practice of ophthalmology and research. It also promotes experimental work in the field of intraocular lens implantation and refractive surgery. | £11,585,248


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Fiona's Eye Fund SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053255)]<br>3.1The Charitable Purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are: 3.1.1the advancement of health. and  3.1.2 the advancement of education.  In furtherance of the Charitable Purposes, the SCIO shall undertake the following activities:  3.2.1 funding trained eye professionals to travel to developing countries to improve eye health. The SCIO intends to focus on funding Scottish health professionals although applications from elsewhere in the UK will be invited. and   3.2.2  it is envisaged that the following types of aid will be eligible for funding in developing countries:  (a)  cataract surgery camps. (b)  community health and education to prevent eye disease.  (c)  a research project or a clinical attachment of a UK-based Ophthalmologist in a developing country to increase knowledge/ improve understanding of eye care in developing countries. (d)  passing on skills and knowledge to local Ophthalmologists. and  (e)  any other forms of treatment or education relating to eye disease as deemed appropriate by the Trustees. | 
<strong>HANSON RESEARCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [275779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-275779)]<br>The charity undertakes medical research and the advancement of medical eductation for the benefit of the public through a fellowship in Surgery at the Department of Surgery at the University of Oxford. | £48,970
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARY SHIREHAMPTON</strong> [Charity number: [1131636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131636)]<br>Church of England services & religious activities for all ages.  Outreach into community including work with youth and elderly.  We run a youth group, dance classes and Pop Up events,  Mothers' Union branch and social activities & host a 'Goldies' singing group and Prayer Hub, Local Councillor surgery & MP surgery, Advice Service & Community Police surgery. | £152,007
<strong>FORTIUS RESEARCH AND EDUCATION FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1172103](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172103)]<br>We aim to improve the diagnosis and treatment of orthopaedic and related musculoskeletal disorders, from acute soft tissue sporting injuries to long-term conditions, such as arthritis, chronic pain and fatigue syndromes.The Foundation does this through supporting education and research into medical conditions, treatments and surgery, as well as dissemination of the results of this research. | £8,040
<strong>Glen Ward Community Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI104531](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104531)]<br>Mens Club A fitness programme designed to promote a healthy lifestyle among men aged 16 years and upwards through sports.Womens Health Group A fitness and health programme designed for women of all ages, incorporating aerobic exercise with healthy eating. Junior Youth Club To bring young people together, to encourage social interaction within their community Golden Girls Craft Group To create a safe environment where older residents can come together to learn new skills and give them a chance to socialise therefore making them feel less isolated and more confident. Junior Wardens Scheme A project designed to improve safety in the Glen Ward area and improve respect and social awareness within the community therefore creating community cohesion. Community Garden Project The GWCDA currently look after a number of pieces of land which the public have access to within the Glen Ward Area, this creates an environmental awareness and a sense of community ownership and pride within the area. Community Surgeries Giving the community direct access to local polititions and public representatives. Summer Youth Diversionary Scheme To bring young people together, to encourage social interaction within their community. Enhances social cohesion and respect within the community. Employ an Admin Worker based in the Community House There is a point of contact for members of the community to call in and be signposted to other services if needed. promote and carry out, or assist in promoting and carrying out research, surveys and investigations and publish the useful results thereof we have evidence to then lobby local politicians on any issues arising. Organise or assist in organising meetings, lectures, classes and exhibitions, and publish or assist in publishing reports, periodicals’ recordings, books or other documents or information. Increases public awareness. | £36,874
<strong>TAVERHAM AND DISTRICT LIONS CLUB (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1184127](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184127)]<br>Our funding is generated by activities within a 10 mile radius of Taverham, Norfolk.  Our funds for supporting local, national & international appeals is handled by our service committee, although a majority support from clubs membership is required before spending is agreed.   We help amongst others:- local schools and surgeries, national & international appeals. | £17,765
<strong>Shetland Health Board Endowment Funds</strong> [Charity number: [SC011513](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011513)]<br>For the reception of sick and diseased persons of every description and the dispensing of medical and surgical advice, assistance and appliances for the benefit of such sick and diseased persons as may be received as inmates of said hospital. | £39,221
<strong>NORTHIAM AND BROAD OAK SURGERIES PATIENT PARTICIPATION GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1007001](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1007001)]<br>To support the practice by purchasing or reimbursing the practice for the purchase, hire or lease of equipment, fittings and movables to facilitate the treatment and comfort of patients and to improve the patient experience.  To pay for or reimburse the practice for the cost of repair and maintenance of said items. | £91,225
<strong>EYE FOR AN EYE CATARACT CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1153725](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153725)]<br>Cataract surgical services to marginalised areas where access to such facilities is restricted and on their commitment to help local partners develop high quality, affordable eye care services that communities can sustain on their own. Partner with organisations who can deliver cataract surgery to those in need in a cost-effective way and delivering a full procedure | 
<strong>TAKE HEART MERCY MISSION</strong> [Charity number: [1144347](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144347)]<br>The Charity was developed and launched by its three trustees Gillingham FC Chairman Paul Scally, The Evelina Children?s Hospital?s Paediatric Heart Surgeon Dr Conal Austin and Paediatric Cardiology Consultant Dr John Simpson in 2012The newly formed charity encompasses the work of Mercy Mission which was started in 2001, and acquired charity status in 2005. | 
