# Physiotherapy `HE308`

Physiotherapy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Health services subcategory.

124 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.06% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(physio|physiotherapy|hydrotherapy)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 38 | 0.05%
£10k - £100k | 29 | 0.04%
£100k - £250k | 30 | 0.14%
£250k - £500k | 6 | 0.06%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.15%
Total | 117 | 0.06%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 107 | 0.06%
ccni | 11 | 0.15%
oscr | 6 | 0.02%
Total | 124 | 0.06%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Ulster Independent Clinic Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103565](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103565)]<br>The hospital provides the following facilities and services to achieve its purpose: • In and day patient rooms • Operating theatres • Recovery wards • Outpatient Department • Physiotherapy Department • X-ray Department • Pharmacy • Cellular Pathology Laboratory | £36,882,215
<strong>ST GILES HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [509014](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-509014)]<br>St Giles Hospice provides excellent palliative care and enables our communities to support each other in living the best life they can to the very end, focusing on what matters most to individuals, families and our community on issues relating to terminal illness, death, dying and loss. Services: IPU, Community Nursing, 24/7 Advice, Therapies/Clinics, Education, Bereavement Support & Physiotherapy | £12,878,664
<strong>Weldmar Hospicecare</strong> [Charity number: [1000414](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000414)]<br>Provision of specialist palliative care to adults and their families, principally in the north, south, and west of Dorset. The charity has locally based community nurses who visit patients at home, a twelve bed Inpatient Unit in Dorchester, and a hospice at home service, as well as a range of support including physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and wellbeing services for patients and loved ones, | £10,354,267
<strong>HAVEN HOUSE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1044296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1044296)]<br>Care for life threatened/limited children and young people and their families, through providing:* Respite care: day care and overnight stays* Palliative care at end of life* Bereavement suite and support* Community and hospice at home services: Physio, Music therapy, Toy loan, Special yoga * Family Support: Siblings, Counselling, Family Suite and Training to equip parents | £5,767,019
<strong>THE ROSE ROAD ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [276172](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276172)]<br>Services for young disabled people and their families including:  Oaks and Acorns Residential Short breaks Service children and adultsOutreach Community ServicesActivities in schools and communityParent advice independent support information and empowerment through Family Services Specialist sensory, Hydrotherapy and Soft Play facilities. | £5,100,957
<strong>MARTHA TRUST HEREFORD LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1053448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053448)]<br>Martha Trust has two care homes for people with profound and complex disabilities. Each home has 14 bedrooms offering lifelong care. It is our philosophy that all residents should enjoy every day of their lives. We offer various activities including:- aromatherapy, hydrotherapy, music, physiotherapy, occupational and speech and language therapy. | £4,695,782
<strong>WAVE TRAUMA CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [NI100204](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100204)]<br>Wave Trauma Centre through its offices across Northern Ireland provides support to Victims of the Troubles through counselling, physiotherapy, befriending or social interaction through group meetings. Referrals are made to WAVE from a number of sources such as G.P’s CPN’s etc. Counselling is provided through a number of modalities to adults and young children whilst physiotherapy is provided for the relief of pain for victims who have suffered physical injury or as a support for those suffering mental pain. Group work is delivered through phyco-social and phyco-educational support classes in each of the centres and through a befriending service WAVE also provides Welfare services in all its offices for clients to assist them in accessing benefits or representing them at appeal tribunals. The outcomes of the services provided is evidenced by the continuous evaluation of clients and the increases access to benefits. WAVE is a registered organisation and operates under a strict code of practice Wave has designed a number of OCN accredited courses OCN specifically dealing with grief and trauma. These are delivered to groups or individuals who are working in this are or are interested in the area of work. WAVE has also developed a degree course at Queens University Belfast in Trauma Studies which is delivered by WAVE staff but accredited by the University. The outcomes of the service can be evidenced through the detailed analysis of the long term benefit of the courses. Access to the programmes is open to all and the course delivery and content is constantly being reviewed by QUB and OCN Beneficiaries are those individuals who are defined as Victims by the legislation and whilst a number of individuals who are directly associated with WAVE benefit from the service as they have been identified as Victims this is incidental to the purpose of the organisation. | £3,469,180
<strong>PAUL SARTORI FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [513079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513079)]<br>To enable people living in the later stages of any life limiting illness to die at home with dignity, independence & surrounded by their loved ones if that is their choice. Services include, hands on care, equipment loan, physiotherapy, complementary therapy, counselling, bereavement, a Clinical Nurse Specialist, training & advanced care planning. Services are free of charge, 24/7, 365 days a year | £2,630,359
<strong>The Martin Residential Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101830)]<br>The Martin Residential Trust provides 24 hour nursing care and support to people with profound and in many cases multiple physical disabilities. We are experienced in supporting people who have conditions such as epilepsy, Alzheimer’s disease, autistic spectrum disorder, Down’s syndrome, cerebral palsy, dysphasia and musculoskeletal disorders. Within the Martin Residential Trust, we are able to provide a safe, supportive and caring environment for vulnerable people. There is always a qualified nurse on duty and we provide a high level of staffing in order that we can appropriately support people who have complex needs. We have suitable facilities to assist people who have physical disabilities, including overhead hoists and accessible transport. We also support people to take part in a full activity programme that is suited to their individual needs. Activities can range from arts and crafts, cookery, sensory activities, hydrotherapy sessions and physiotherapy and the person’s activity plan is suited to their assessed individual needs. Our wide range of facilities and our breadth of experience mean that we are able to be very responsive to changes in a person’s needs or health. | £1,375,742
<strong>NEUROMUSCULAR CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1023606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1023606)]<br>The aim of the Neuromuscular Centre is to work together to support people affected by muscular dystrophy, creating an environment where full potential and optimal well-being can be achieved, through employment, training and physiotherapy. | £1,160,177


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE REACH FOR HEALTH CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1138302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138302)]<br>Physical and Mental Health Rehabilitation centre specialising in Exercise based Physiotherapy for long term and life long illnesses including, Stroke, Heart Disease, Back Pain, COPD, Asthma, Diabetes, MS, Mental Health Disorders, Joint Replacement, Cancer, Falls Prevention, Acquired Brain Injury, Poor Mobility, etc. Signatories to the Armed Forces Covenant to assist the Military community. | £278,444
<strong>PARKINSON'S CARE AND SUPPORT UK</strong> [Charity number: [1179246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179246)]<br>WE PROVIDE FREE:EXERCISE CLASSES, NEUROLOGICAL- PHYSIOTHERAPY,  RESPITE CARE, VISITING CARE, PARKINSON'S MENTAL HEALTH SUPPORT HUB, OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY, INTEGRATED HEALTH CENTRES,INFORMATION ADVICE AND SUPPORT ON:  INTEGRATED AND HOLISTIC THERAPIES, DIET AND NUTRITION.  WE ALSO FUND NON PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND STUDIES.TO IMPROVE PHYSICAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING FOR PEOPLE WITH PARKINSON'S. | £226,823
<strong>BREATHE</strong> [Charity number: [1095715](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095715)]<br>Breathe was established in 2002 to raise funds to help children with illnesses through the purchase of equipment and services.Breathe has been able support a number of hospitals and care providers in the South East by providing equipment including a paediatric ventilator, patient monitoring unit, specialist cot cooling equipment and physiotherapy equipment. | 
<strong>Ballymote Community Project Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI101358](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101358)]<br>The Ballymote Centre for Community & Business was created in 1994 at the heart of an area of serious deprivation and economic disadvantage. The centre was extended in 2010 and is held in great pride by the whole community as a community centre with a huge range of shops and services and a space to meet, learn, relax and access services. The group behind the development has helped to develop a strong community spirit through the creation of pride, employment and training opportunities and social interaction within its local area. The focal points of the area are the retail units, community centre offering support to local residents and the wider community of Down District. Examples of services available at Ballymote are A health suite within the community hall providing outreach physiotherapy, counselling, diabetics, dietetics and other clinics by the local South Eastern health Trust. Women’s Aid are based in the centre in order to support vulnerable women within the community Ballymote Sure Start Project provides services, advice and guidance for families with young children Action For Children provide playgroup and after school facilities; St Vincent de Paul, a Christian voluntary organisation, dedicated to tackling poverty and the disadvantaged operates its charity shop from the centre. Over 25 Community groups and charities have based themselves and their activities in The Ballymote Centre and these include: County Down Rural Community Network, The Flying Horse Ward Community Forum, Community Advice NMD (formerly CAB), Clanrye Groups Family intervention & employability services, Downpatrick Special Olympics, St Colmcilles Parish Bingo, McCormick, Miskelly school of Irish Dance, Trojan Horse Mens and Womens groups, Downpatrick Collective and many more The shop units based at Ballymote Centre include: Supervalu Supermarket, McGreevys Butchers, Ballymote Pharmacy, Ozones Hairdressers, Lucy Annies Home Bakery & Coffee shop, Peking Garden Chinese take away | £185,049
<strong>PENLLERGAER SPLASH APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1106060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1106060)]<br>Raising funds to provide a hydrotherapy pool for people with profound and multiple learning and physical disability in South West Wales | £7
<strong>SALAMA UK</strong> [Charity number: [1142697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142697)]<br>Accomplishments 2012 - 2021:-Tom Mboya School for Children with Cerebral Palsy: Renovation, fees and school bus provision-Oloolua Special School: Fees provision-Lamu School for mentally disabled children: Refurbishment and fees provision-Acorn Special School: Fees, built physiotherapy unit, begun construction of training centre as first phase of new project-University/college sponsorship | £7,666
<strong>HYDRO MUSCLES LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1200276](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200276)]<br>to relieve sickness and to preserve and protect good health for the public benefit ofpeoplewith rare muscle conditions (limb girdle type 2a Muscular dystrophy) through the provisionof hydrotherapy | £14,745
<strong>BENEVOLENT FUND OF THE INCORPORATED SOCIETY OF MUSICIANS</strong> [Charity number: [206801](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-206801)]<br>Since 2019, the ISM Members Fund has focused on delivering services and resources to help ISM members improve their physical, mental, and financial health. It operates mental health services including counselling and Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT) and offers a physiotherapy service, as well as discounted hearing protection and financial  resources. | £582,489
<strong>THE JACK PRICE PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1193482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193482)]<br>The Jack Price Project operates in Bali, Indonesia for children disadvantaged by health or poverty, to provide access to sports & leisure activities and facilities  such as yoga, basketball, soccer, swimming and hydrotherapy.  Also facilitating access to healthcare and support for the advancement of education, which may include financial assistance for travel, clothing and medicine. | £8,601
<strong>Weldmar Hospicecare</strong> [Charity number: [1000414](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000414)]<br>Provision of specialist palliative care to adults and their families, principally in the north, south, and west of Dorset. The charity has locally based community nurses who visit patients at home, a twelve bed Inpatient Unit in Dorchester, and a hospice at home service, as well as a range of support including physiotherapy, occupational therapy, and wellbeing services for patients and loved ones, | £10,354,267
