# Healthcare provider `HE400`

Healthcare provider is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Healthcare provider subcategory.

944 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.47% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((health|medical) (cent(re|er)|facilit(y|ies))|doctor'?s? surger(ies|y)|infirmar(ies|y)|clinics?|dispensary|pharmacy|medical wing)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 346 | 0.47%
£10k - £100k | 330 | 0.48%
£100k - £250k | 84 | 0.40%
£250k - £500k | 51 | 0.49%
£500k - £1m | 41 | 0.64%
£1m - £10m | 40 | 0.46%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.33%
Total | 899 | 0.47%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 769 | 0.45%
ccni | 88 | 1.22%
oscr | 87 | 0.35%
Total | 944 | 0.47%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>TRUSTEES OF THE LONDON CLINIC LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [211136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211136)]<br>The provision of medical care to patients and the sick and the promotion and advancement of scientific research, good clinical practice and training. | £184,618,000
<strong>THE PEOPLE'S DISPENSARY FOR SICK ANIMALS</strong> [Charity number: [208217](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-208217)]<br>Founded in 1917, PDSA is the UK's leading veterinary charity. Our mission is to improve the life of every pet. We prevent illness, suffering and unnecessary death of pets; educate people about their welfare needs, and treat pets needing our help across the UK.  In 2018 we provided 2.5 million treatments to more than 430,000 pets. Our services are funded entirely by public support. | £113,975,000
<strong>People's Dispensary For Sick Animals</strong> [Charity number: [SC037585](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037585)]<br>(4) The objects of the Society are– a) the provision of free medical or surgical treatment, or such treatment at reduced charges, to animals belonging to persons who are unable to afford the services of a veterinary surgeon.  b) the prevention of suffering of animals by the provision of preventative treatment, care and advice (whether free, at a reduced charge or at full charge).  c) the education of the public in matters concerning animal health and welfare in general.  d) the advancement of animal welfare for the public benefit by any   other means.’   | £113,975,000
<strong>Ulster Independent Clinic Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103565](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103565)]<br>The hospital provides the following facilities and services to achieve its purpose: • In and day patient rooms • Operating theatres • Recovery wards • Outpatient Department • Physiotherapy Department • X-ray Department • Pharmacy • Cellular Pathology Laboratory | £36,882,215
<strong>PILGRIMS HOSPICES IN EAST KENT</strong> [Charity number: [293968](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293968)]<br>The charity runs three hospices providing specialist palliative care services to patients through inpatient and day care, clinics, support at home from teams of community nurses and a 24-hour helpline.  Families receive social, pastoral and bereavement support from teams of professionals at all three hospices. An education centre provides training and education for professionals and the public. | £18,090,000
<strong>LEICESTERSHIRE & RUTLAND ORGANISATION FOR THE RELIEF OF SUFFERING LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [506120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506120)]<br>Hospice care with the aim of enhancing the quality of life of patients with cancer, progressive neurological disease and other conditions, and for whom curative treatment is no longer possible.  Patients are aged 18 years and upwards.Areas of activity:In-patient Ward (31 beds), Clinics:Community Nurse Specialists, DayTherapy, Counselling, Lymphoedema Clinics, Education/Training, Research | £15,699,578
<strong>ST GILES HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [509014](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-509014)]<br>St Giles Hospice provides excellent palliative care and enables our communities to support each other in living the best life they can to the very end, focusing on what matters most to individuals, families and our community on issues relating to terminal illness, death, dying and loss. Services: IPU, Community Nursing, 24/7 Advice, Therapies/Clinics, Education, Bereavement Support & Physiotherapy | £12,282,931
<strong>ROWCROFT HOUSE FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [282723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-282723)]<br>The delivery of the following services:12 bedded inpatient unit24/7 Hospice at Home serviceSpecialist Palliative Care (Multi- Professional) Community Team - Out Patient clinics and support groupsPhysiotherapyOccupational TherapyComplementary TherapiesMusic TherapyBereavement SupportEducational programmes to Health and Social care professionals | £9,688,625
<strong>ST LUKE'S HOSPICE (HARROW AND BRENT) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [298555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-298555)]<br>Provision of hospice/specialist palliative care services, including in-patient, daycare and outpatient clinics, community services and family support plus education in palliative care | £9,688,000
<strong>CLEVELAND CLINIC PHILANTHROPY (UK) LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1188616](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188616)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, to the extent that the same are exclusively charitable according to the laws of England and Wales, the advancement of health, medical education and research for the benefit of the public and in particular  (but without limitation) in supporting The Cleveland Clinic Foundation. | £7,467,021


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>AL TAZID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1164525](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164525)]<br>Based in Ipswich, Suffolk Al-Tazid mainly works with the very poor and needy in Sylhet District of Bangladesh providing clean water, eye clinic, educational equipment, distribution of clothes and other basic necessities of life for the destitute. Members raise funds in the United Kingdom which enables this charity to help our beneficiaries improve their quality of life. | £18,475
<strong>SALVATION CLINIC INTERNATIONAL MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1145194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145194)]<br>In line with the objects of the organization which is for the benefit of the public. SCIM has been advancing the Christian faith by providing for a place of worship, training, holding of conferences, seminars, and training courses.SCIM has also been coordinating and cooperating with local bodies such as the police, local food banks and neighbourhood watch committees in Aldershot and Reading | £58,576
<strong>BLIND AND SIGHT IMPAIRED SOCIETY (BASIS)</strong> [Charity number: [1188583](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188583)]<br>BASIS provides emotional and practical support to visually impaired people in South Essex. We do this through equipment demonstration at our Resource Centre, home visit assessments, befriending services, social activity groups and providing support at the local eye clinic. | £127,956
<strong>Portaferry Community Collective Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI101935](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101935)]<br>Portaferry Community Collective Ltd, firstly provides space for local groups to come together and deliver projects to benefit the people of Portaferry and surrounding area irrespective of age, sex, religion, political background, disability, ethnicity or sexual orientation. We have 20 members groups and also work with a broad range of others including the local schools and statutory organisations. We have delivered a Programme of Public Realm Works for Portaferry in partnership with Ards Borough Council, this involved working with both local primary Schools and the Seniors Group to employ an artist to develop entrance features for the village, also we painted derelict properties around the village and have replaced old and tried summer seats with new ones. With an Older Youth Forum with have run a Halloween Bonfire programme addressing the problem of wildcat bonfires throughout estates within the village to a single community bonfire with youth activities. We have run a fun day to make community aware of the lovely park we have at Exploris. We have delivered a Community Pharmacy project in partnership with our local pharmacy running health workshops and carrying out a survey to identify the health needs of our residents. We have supported other local groups raise awareness of their projects such as 'Friends of Exploris Trust'. We are currently in the process of developing a new Village Plan for Portaferry in partnership with all the other local groups in the village. We loan out of our equipment 'Community Event Resource Pack' to other local groups free of charge for their community events generally on loan to 15-20 different groups throughout the year. We have run genealogy classes for local residents and held a health fair. In December 2014 we won the NIHE Rural Community Spirit Award Competition for Large Village, this we entered in behalf of all of the community in Portaferry. | £11,492
<strong>JAMIA ISLAMIA ISHAATUL ULOOM UK</strong> [Charity number: [1136524](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136524)]<br>To advance education of children in areas of need in India; to preserve and protect the health of the vulnerable members of society in India by providing guidance literature, equipment and medical facilities; to assist in any purpose which would be considered to be charitable by the Charity Commission in the UK which the Trustees may from time to time decide that may be in need of assistance. | £634,049
<strong>THE CAPTAIN FRENCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1103254](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103254)]<br>The promotion of health through education, access to medical facilities, acquisition and provision of medical equipment, research and the provision of healthcare for the benefit of the public | £231
<strong>Upper Andersonstown Community Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI105782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105782)]<br>Listed below is the range of programmes, projects and activities the Forum delivers to achieve its objects UPPER ANDERSONSTOWN COMMUNITY FORUM (ACTIVITIES) WORK EXPERIENCE PLACEMENTS Childcare Early Years Afterschool Project Youth Club Administration - Caretaking and Cleaning VOLUNTEER PROJECT CHILDCARE PROECT Volunteering placements in youth project, childcare, management committee Big Lottery Afterschool Project Afterschool Creche Creche in support of training Surestart 2 year old programme COMMUNITY EDUCATION TRAINING PROGRAMME Driving Theory ICT (range of levels) Personal Development Irish Job search/CV building ESSENTIAL SKILLS PROJECCT Numeracy and Literacy Support Essential Skills school programme EMPLOYMENT AND JOB SUPPORT PROGRAMME Job Assist clinic/mentoring Referral to SIF opportunities WELFARE ADVICE PROJECT Advice/Support in relation to benefit entitlement LEAD PARTNER NEIGHBOURHOOD RENEWAL PARTNERSHIP Thematic (a) Community Infrastructure (b) Culture (c) Community Safety (d)Health (e)Economic Development UTOPIA SENIOR CITIZENS PROJECT Senior Citizens social, creative and health Programme DISABILTY GROUPS Sky’s the Limit Drama Group West Belfast Parkinson’s Support Group HEALTH Stress Management Health Promotion Days YOUTH CLUB 200-Place Youth Club (5-11 year olds &12-16 year olds) Extensive range of social , cultural and sporting activities EARLY INTERVENTION PROGRAMME Provide alternatives to anti- social activity for12-21 year olds Education, training and placements SUMMER SCHEME 4 week programme of social, sporting and entertainment activities. SUMMER DAYCARE 8 weeks Primary 1 to Primary 7 ICT EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT Accredited OCR Centre ECDL Cascade Career Development Software Beginner’s Computers CLAIT OCR Internet Technologies COMMUNITY NEWSLETTER Informing the community of our work Clubs/Schools www.upperandersonstown.com FOR MORE INFORMATION ON ANY OF THE PROJECTS CONTACT Patrick Wilson at 02890622201 | £754,450
<strong>PORA ZIMBABWE</strong> [Charity number: [1197779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197779)]<br>The purpose of PORA is to alleviate the trauma and distress, both mentally and physically, for victims of rape, sexual assault and sexual abuse in Zimbabwe. This will be achieved through the promotion, support and provision of grants for essential resources for ARC (Adult Rape Clinic) Zimbabwe. | £23,017
<strong>Lochaber Disability Access Panel</strong> [Charity number: [SC036662](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036662)]<br>The remit of the Panel is to ensure that all residents and visitors to the Lochaber area, are treated equally, irrespective of age, disability, faith, gender or race. in being able to gain access to use all the public facilities enabling participation within Lochaber these being:  all local public facilities, Education, Employment, Guest Houses & Hotel accommodation, Information, Medical Facilities, Social Inclusion, Sport and Transport  The Panel will raise and support accessibility and disability awareness throughout Lochaber  The Panel objectives and aspiration is to create a barrier free environment for all residents and visitors to Lochaber, irrespective of any disability, in gaining access to the built environment.  Where: - Access means the full range of activity related to the built environment: that is to approach, enter, use, egress from, and to evacuate the built environment independently, in an equable and dignified manner.  The built environment encompasses all buildings and other constructions made by humankind for their use and benefit. This includes public transport and associated infrastructure  This principally concerns access to public, domestic, and commercial buildings and public infrastructure.  The Panel wishes to: Enhance the enjoyment of people with disabilities, Encourage 'building for life', Encourage 'barrier free housing for life',  Disability Conversion Ready Enable the right for equal access to public information in an appropriate format,  Engage with the Planning and Building Control departments to agree guidelines for 'Disability Conversion Ready' for all developers of new builds (for rental or purchase).  Where:- Disability Conversion Ready means designing/building now to facilitate future conversion or modification for use by disabled people with minimum disruption and cost This is to ensure that all new dwellings are 'disability conversion ready'  All recommendations are carried out by encouragement and negotiation  | £1,227
<strong>AHEAD International (Action For Health, Education and Disability)</strong> [Charity number: [1194482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194482)]<br>1) To relief sickness and to preserve health of patients in any part of the world but especially Sierra Leone by providing or assisting in the provision of walk-in centres and mobile clinics to facilitate diagnostic services, medical treatment, and speciality referrals2) To advance and promote education of the general public in all areas. | 
