# Hospital `HE402`

Hospital is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Healthcare provider subcategory.

2,991 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.47% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(hospitals?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,086 | 1.52%
£10k - £100k | 985 | 1.41%
£100k - £250k | 262 | 1.19%
£250k - £500k | 163 | 1.50%
£500k - £1m | 124 | 1.85%
£1m - £10m | 190 | 2.11%
Over £10m | 62 | 2.84%
Total | 2,872 | 1.50%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,615 | 1.53%
oscr | 271 | 1.09%
ccni | 105 | 1.46%
Total | 2,991 | 1.47%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Nuffield Health</strong> [Charity number: [SC041793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041793)]<br>3.1 To advance, promote and maintain health and health care of all descriptions and to prevent, relieve and cure sickness and ill health of any kind, all for the public benefit. | £1,453,100,000
<strong>NUFFIELD HEALTH</strong> [Charity number: [205533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205533)]<br>To advance, promote and maintain health and healthcare of all descriptions and to prevent, relieve and cure sickness and ill health of every kind. | £1,453,100,000
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £271,466,000
<strong>ST ANDREW'S HEALTHCARE</strong> [Charity number: [1104951](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104951)]<br>The UK's leading independent charitable provider of specialist mental health care, working with the NHS in the UK to meet the needs of those with psychiatric illness, developmental disability, acquired brain injury and related disorders. The range of services is available to men, women, and young people with needs in mental health, learning disability, brain injury and/or neurological impairment. | £217,813,703
<strong>TRUSTEES OF THE LONDON CLINIC LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [211136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211136)]<br>The provision of medical care to patients and the sick and the promotion and advancement of scientific research, good clinical practice and training. | £188,080,000
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £169,115,367
<strong>GREAT ORMOND STREET HOSPITAL CHILDREN'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1160024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160024)]<br>Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity undertakes fundraising activities in order to invest in development, research and innovation, welfare and clinical development projects, medical equipment and capital infrastructure, all of which will enhance Great Ormond Street Hospital's ability to transform the health and well being of children and young people. | £131,210,000
<strong>THE PRIORY OF ENGLAND AND THE ISLANDS OF THE MOST VENERABLE ORDER OF THE HOSPITAL OF ST. JOHN OF JERUSALEM</strong> [Charity number: [1077265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077265)]<br>Provide First Aid Training, First Aid Services, Ambulance Services, Youth Services | £106,900,000
<strong>SS. JOHN AND ELIZABETH CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [235822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-235822)]<br>To provide a hospital for the reception, care and treatment of patients without distinction and, in particular, for patients requiring palliative care, and to serve the sick and dying, and to care for the physical, spiritual and emotional needs of patients irrespective of nationality or religion. | £66,229,000
<strong>Affinity Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043881](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043881)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are the relief of persons with learning difficulties or disabilities, mental or physical difficulties or disabilities, the elderly, those who are chronically sick and persons who are socially, mentally and physically vulnerable by: (a) the management and provision either directly or indirectly by arrangement subcontract or otherwise with other persons firms bodies trusts NHS trusts agencies, Local Authorities public authorities or Government departments of such comprehensive support services and benefits of high quality as may be required by the beneficiaries. (b) the management and provision and ownership (including co-ownership) for such persons as aforesaid in need thereof of houses, hostels, hospitals or other establishments or facilities or accommodation and any associated amenities specially designed or adapted to meet the handicaps and disabilities and requirements of the beneficiaries. (c) the management and provision of services, advice or assistance upon terms appropriate to their means to such persons as aforesaid in need thereof in arranging or carrying out works of improvement, repair or maintenance to houses occupied by them, and providing any associated amenities specially designed or adapted to meet the handicaps disabilities and requirements of the beneficiaries. | £66,224,795


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HOME FROM HOSPITAL CARE AFTER TREATMENT</strong> [Charity number: [517190](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517190)]<br>According to our contract with Birmingham City Council we assist older patients after their discharge home from hospitals and elsewhere.  Four teams help discharged patients and one of these also works with Falls patients in Birmingham;  research, discharge and aftercare;  monitor our work e.g. the needs of patients and the help given;  participate in the work of national and local organisations. | £282,082
<strong>FRIENDS OF DANETRE HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [1048177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048177)]<br>Raise funds to supply ancillary equipment and comforts to Danetre Hospital and ancillary units in Daventry | £39,890
<strong>The Queen's Own Highlanders Regimental Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC004311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004311)]<br>The objectives of The Association are as follows:  a. To promote the welfare of all veterans of The Regiment.  b. To foster and promote esprit de corps, comradeship and Regimental interest amongst veterans of The Regiment of all ranks and their families.  c. To arrange assistance where necessary, to veterans of The Regiment, or to their spouses, widows, widowers, civil partners or children, giving particular consideration to Members of the Association or their dependants.  d. To grant financial assistance and/or gifts in kind to veterans in distress or necessitous circumstances or those as previously described.  e. To give advice to ex-members of The Regiment and their dependants on welfare matters, including items such as: entry to homes, hospitals and benevolent institutions, pensions and allowances. f. To encourage recruiting for Regular, Reserve and ACF elements of any successor Regiment. g. To support Service charities and institutions that can benefit veterans of The Regiment. h. To organise periodic Regimental gatherings and reunions. i. To administer the activities of the Association efficiently, meet the expenses of managing the Association and prudently manage its assets. j. To erect, maintain and when necessary renew or replace permanent memorials to those who served in The Regiment, including private graves of historical importance. k. To undertake any act or expenditure which it is appropriate to The Regiment or the furtherance of the memory and knowledge of The Regiment and its history. | £35,313
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MICHAEL AND ALL ANGELS LEDBURY</strong> [Charity number: [1132846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132846)]<br>St Michael and All Angels is the parish church of Ledbury. It provides the spiritual focus for the population of Ledbury through regular religious services, work with local schools, visiting local care homes and hospitals. We also work with other groups within Ledbury.  As an asset to the town, the building hosts concerts and civic occasions and is a tourist attraction. | £204,123
<strong>REHMAT WELFARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1197185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197185)]<br>THE RELIEF OF SICKNESS AND THE PRESERVATION OF HEALTH THROUGH PROVISION OF FACILITIES, ITEMS AND SERVICES TO PATIENTS AND HOSPITALS IN PAKISTAN AND SUCH OTHER MEANS AS THE TRUSTEES MAY DETERMINE. | 
<strong>MALAWI HEALTH CARE SUPPORT (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1209295](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209295)]<br>THE CIO’S OBJECTS (“THE OBJECTS”) ARE TO RELIEVE SICKNESS AND PRESERVE GOOD HEALTH AMONG PATIENTS IN HOSPITALS, HEALTH CLINICS, SURGERIES AND OTHER PLACES WHERE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE IS DISPENSED IN MALAWI (HEREINAFTER CALLED THE “AREA OF BENEFIT”) BY THE PROVISION OF MEDICAL AND OTHER EQUIPMENT AND OF MEDICAL EXPERTISE, TRAINING AND SUPPORT | 
<strong>Enniskillen/Trory/St Michael/Clogher/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI105438](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105438)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community Morning Prayer every Sunday consists of confession of sin, giving thanks, praising God, hearing God's Word and asking God for spiritual and practical help as well as intercession for those in need. During the vacancy a Diocesan Pastoral Assistant visits the elderly and housebound in their homes or nursing homes. The minister in charge of the parish carries out hospital visiting. The sick and bereaved are prayed for during morning pmkrayer. The parish supports (through prayer and donations) missionary groups. Children of the parish take part in morning prayer especially at Harvest and Christmas. The weekly commitment to God of Church attenders demonstrates that God is relevant to everyone. The weekly teaching in Morning Prayer benefits those who attend, their faith is strengthened to be lights in the community throughout the week by sharing their faith,in kindness to the sick and lonely and giving practical help as needed. The monthly fellowship with a cup of tea after morning prayer is a welcome occasion for social interaction and support. Sunday School on Sunday mornings is a great opportunity to teach the fundamentals of the Christian Faith to children and young teens. A number of parishioners have completed the Safeguarding Trust regarding Child Protection policy. Relatives of former parishioners can access parish records and arrangements can be made with Church/Glebe Wardens to access the property at arranged times outside church services. The Parish has given careful consideration to the Charity Commission for Northern Ireland's guidance on public benefit to ensure that the activities entered into during the year have helped to achieve the Parishes objectives and activities as well as providing public benefit. | £72,022
<strong>CANCER CARE HOSPITAL & RESEARCH CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1157272](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1157272)]<br>Supporting Cancer treatment, awareness and education. | £84,923
<strong>AGE UK SUTTON</strong> [Charity number: [1085875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085875)]<br>Age UK Sutton offers a comprehensive portfolio of services for people over 50 who reside in the London Borough of Sutton. Services include  Home from Hospital,  Community Connections  - including combating isolation, wellbeing and activities programmes, digital technology, mental health support, influencing, accessible specialist information, advice and advocacy and Dementia support. | £1,926,750
<strong>PORTSMOUTH HOSPITALS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1047986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1047986)]<br>Funds are held for any charitable fund purpose or purposes relating to the services provided by Portsmouth Hospitals NHS Trust. | £891,000
