# Hospice `HE401`

Hospice is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Healthcare provider subcategory.

556 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.27% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(hospices?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 152 | 0.21%
£10k - £100k | 122 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 44 | 0.20%
£250k - £500k | 10 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 22 | 0.32%
£1m - £10m | 116 | 1.26%
Over £10m | 75 | 3.34%
Total | 541 | 0.28%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 498 | 0.29%
oscr | 43 | 0.17%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 556 | 0.27%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MARIE CURIE</strong> [Charity number: [207994](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207994)]<br>Marie Curie is a UK charity dedicated to the care of people with terminal illnesses:Provide specialist care for the terminally illHelp and support families and carers of the terminally illResearch the best ways to care for the terminally illCampaign for the terminally ill to be able to die in their place of choice | £181,101,000
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £106,110,000
<strong>SUE RYDER</strong> [Charity number: [1052076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052076)]<br>Provide specialist palliative care in our hospices and in patients' homes.Provide health and social support via community services. Provide grief and bereavement support. | £106,110,000
<strong>THE HOSPITAL SATURDAY FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1123381](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123381)]<br>The Charitable Company's principal activities are grant making to medical charities, hospices and hospitals and to individuals with health or disability problems.  These donations and grants were made possible by the surplus profits of the Charitable Company's trading Company, HSF health plan, being gifted to The Hospital Saturday Fund. | £36,886,680
<strong>Hospice UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC041112](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041112)]<br>Objects 3. The objects of the Charity are:  3.1 to facilitate and promote the relief, care and treatment of the sick, especially of the dying, and the support and care of their families and carers and of the bereaved  3.2 to facilitate and promote the charitable activities of Independent Hospices.  3.3 to provide or facilitate education and training for professionals and volunteers engaged in palliative care and increase awareness among the general public of the values, principles and practice of hospice and palliative care | £34,097,000
<strong>HOSPICE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1014851](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014851)]<br> Hospice UK is the national charity working for those experiencing death, dying and bereavement. Our strategic goals underpin our programmes and aim to ensure hospice quality care is delivered in any setting; tackle inequality and widen access to hospice care;  build community capacity and resilience and empower a strong, dynamic and responsive hospice sector. | £34,097,000
<strong>Southern Hospice Group</strong> [Charity number: [256789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-256789)]<br>Providing end of life care for adults in our local community, in their home or at our adult hospice - St Barnabas House and caring for life limited children throughout Sussex at our children's hospice - Chestnut Tree House. | £30,337,000
<strong>FARLEIGH HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [284670](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284670)]<br>Adult Hospice | £30,248,000
<strong>ST CHRISTOPHERS HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [210667](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210667)]<br>St Christopher's Hospice exists to promote and provide skilled and compassionate palliative care of the highest quality. This high quality service is delivered to over 2,000 dying individuals and their families, friends and carers every year. We share our skills and expertise with others in the field through our extensive education and training programme and research into improving care. | £29,419,000
<strong>Children’s Hospices Across Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC019724](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC019724)]<br>To promote the relief of illness and suffering in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit  | £26,244,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE TRI-LIFE CHALLENGE</strong> [Charity number: [1173182](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173182)]<br>The relief of sickness and the preservation and protection of public health by:a) Supporting cancer research in the UK.b) Supporting hospices and other palliative care organisations in their efforts to provide end of life care to cancer patients.c) Promoting cancer awareness and early detection of cancer. | 
<strong>The Miss Mary G Burnett Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041266](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041266)]<br>My Trustees may accumulate for such period or periods as they may deem appropriate (within the limits laid down by Statute) and apply the income of the Trust Fund at such times or intervals as they deem appropriate to and for the legally charitable purposes of all or any of the following charitable institutions namely.- (a) MACMILLAN CANCER RELIEF, Nine Castle Terrace, Edinburgh. (b) CANCER RESEARCH CAMPAIGN SCOTLAND, Two hundred and Twenty-six Queensferry Road, Edinburgh. (c) ALTZHEIMER SCOTLAND, Twenty-two Drumsheugh Gardens,  Edinburgh. (d) RACHEL HOUSE CHILDREN'S HOSPICE, Avenue Road, Kinross, Perth. (e) HELP THE AGED SCOTLAND, Heriot House, Heriot Terrace, Edinburgh. (f) BRITISH RED CROSS, Alexandra House, Two hundred and Four Bath Street, Glasgow. (g) SALVATION ARMY, Deer Road, Woodside, Aberdeen. (h) ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTE, West Quay Road, Poole. (i) ARTHRITIS CARE, Eighteen Stephenson Way, London. and (j) . ROYAL NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR THE BLIND, Dunedin House, Twenty-five Ravelstone Terrace, Edinburgh. and any other similar charitable institutions or other bodies as may be decided by my Trustees in such shares and in such manner as my Trustees shall in their absolute discretion decide. | £15,072
<strong>William Munro Trust For Alness Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC023201](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023201)]<br>Highland Hospice, Bishops Road, Inverness, or if it shall not be in existence at the date of my death then to such other Charity as my Trustees in their sole discretion decide as being appropriate, having similar aims and objects and Alness Congregation of the Church of Scotland. | £49,846
<strong>ST MICHAEL'S HOSPICE (INCORPORATING THE FREDA PEARCE FOUNDATION)</strong> [Charity number: [511179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511179)]<br>The Charity provides a range of palliative care to people with progressive life-limitingillness and support to their carers and aims to promote the development of knowledgeand understanding of all aspects of palliative care by delivering training andprofessional support to professional carers | £12,809,104
<strong>ST CHRISTOPHERS HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [210667](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210667)]<br>St Christopher's Hospice exists to promote and provide skilled and compassionate palliative care of the highest quality. This high quality service is delivered to over 2,000 dying individuals and their families, friends and carers every year. We share our skills and expertise with others in the field through our extensive education and training programme and research into improving care. | £29,419,000
<strong>THE SHAKESPEARE HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1064091](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064091)]<br>We provide expert, holistic, specialist care and support for every young person and adult living in our community with a life limiting illness, and for those who matter to them.     Care is delivered on a non-residential basis at the Hospice and in the community by specialist nursing and care teams. | £2,196,844
<strong>HAYLING ISLAND CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1093874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093874)]<br>We still support, monthly, direct debit for air ambulance and support our local Rowans Hospice. | £566
<strong>THE MARJORIE MARTIN CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1208661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208661)]<br>UPON TRUST TO PAY OR APPLY THE INCOME OF THE THE MARJORIE MARTIN CHARITABLE TRUST WITH POWER IN ITSABSOLUTE DISCRETION FROM TIME TO TIME TO PAY OR APPLY THE WHOLE OR ANY PART OR PARTS OF THE CAPITAL OF THE THEMARJORIE MARTIN CHARITABLE TRUST TO OR FOR THE BENEFIT OF ALL OR SUCH ONE OR MORE CHARITIES (AS HEREINAFTERDEFINED) IN SUCH SHARES IF MORE THAN ONE AND IN SUCH MANNER AS MY TRUSTEES SHALL FROM TIME TO TIME IN THEIRABSOLUTE DISCRETION THINK FIT PROVIDED THAT MY TRUSTEES SHALL ALSO HAVE POWER (NOTWITHSTANDING THEFOREGOING TRUSTS IN RESPECT OF SUCH INCOME) DURING THE PERIOD OF TWENTY ONE YEARS FROM MY DEATH IF IN ITSABSOLUTE DISCRETION THEY THINK FIT FROM TIME TO TIME TO ACCUMULATE ALL OR ANY PART OF THE INCOME OF THE THEMARJORIE MARTIN CHARITABLE TRUST BY INVESTING THE SAME AND THE RESULTING INCOME THEREOF IN ANYINVESTMENTS HEREBY AUTHORISED AND ADDING THE ACCUMULATIONS TO THE CAPITAL OF THE THE MARJORIE MARTINCHARITABLE TRUST.(B) IN THIS CLAUSE "THE CHARITIES" MEANS:- (I) THE GUIDE DOGS FOR THE BLIND ASSOCIATION (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 209617)(II) ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF CRUELTY TO BIRDS (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 207076) (III) HELP THE AGED (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 272786) (IV) BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 225971)(V) BRANSBY HOME OF REST FOR HORSES (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 1075601) (VI) THE HARTLEPOOL HOSPICE LIMITED (REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 510824)IF AT MY DEATH ANY OF THE CHARITIES HEREINBEFORE MENTIONED HAS CEASED TO EXIST OR HAS AMALGAMATED WITH ANOTHER CHARITY OR HAS CHANGED ITS NAME MY TRUSTEES SHALL PAY ITS SHARE TO THE CHARITABLE ORGANISATION WHICH THEY CONSIDER MOST NEARLY FULFILS THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY INTENDED TO HAVE BEEN BENEFITED. | 
<strong>THE JOHN EASTWOOD HOSPICE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [517041](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517041)]<br>The charity remains registered in case a legacy refers to the registration number. The principal charity is 1117576. | 
<strong>HOPE HOUSE CHILDREN'S HOSPICES</strong> [Charity number: [1003859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1003859)]<br>Hope House Children's Hospices provides palliative care for babies, children and young adults up to the age of 25 and support for their family. Care is provided at home, in hospital and at two specially designed hospices, Hope House in Shropshire and Ty Gobaith in North Wales. Services include respite, emergency care, end of life care, social work, sibling support and counselling. | £13,410,584
