# Healthcare provider support `HE500`

Healthcare provider support is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Healthcare provider support subcategory.

310 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((hospital|hospice|(health|medical) cent(re|er)|infirmary|medical wing) (fund|foundation|association)|benefit of (the )?(in|out)?(- )?patients|(funds|fundraising|donations) (for|to) .* (hospital|hospice|(health|medical) cent(re|er)|infirmary|medical wing))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 111 | 0.16%
£10k - £100k | 115 | 0.16%
£100k - £250k | 24 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 9 | 0.08%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.14%
£1m - £10m | 25 | 0.27%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.31%
Total | 301 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 287 | 0.17%
oscr | 16 | 0.06%
ccni | 7 | 0.10%
Total | 310 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>General Medical Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC037750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037750)]<br>The main objective of the General Council in exercising their function is to protect promote and maintain the health and safety of the public. Section 1A Medical Act 1983 (as amended) The commissioners concluded that the GMC is a charity and accordingly is registrable with the Commission pursuant to section 3(2) of the Charities Act 1993. | £167,543,346
<strong>GENERAL MEDICAL COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1089278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089278)]<br>We are an independent organisation that helps to protect patients and improve medical practice across the UK. | £167,543,346
<strong>MOORFIELDS EYE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1140679](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140679)]<br>The Charity raises funds to enable Moorfields Eye Hospital to continue to provide excellent care for patients and their families  and to help ensure the hospital remains a world-class centre for ophthalmic research and education. | £24,764,000
<strong>THE NHS CONFEDERATION</strong> [Charity number: [1090329](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090329)]<br>The NHS Confederation supports healthcare services in England, Northern Ireland and Wales.  It is the membership body for providers and commissioners of healthcare. We seek to support our members and the wider system to plan, deliver and transform health and care systems for the benefit of patients, carers and the public. | £23,950,997
<strong>CHRIST'S HOSPITAL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [306975](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306975)]<br>The education of poor or needy children | £12,662,000
<strong>ST RICHARDS HOSPICE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [515668](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515668)]<br>To enhance, through specialist palliative care and education, the quality of life of patients and those important to them,suffering from cancer or other life-threatening illness. | £10,602,782
<strong>ROYAL BROMPTON AND HAREFIELD HOSPITALS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1053584](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053584)]<br>Furthering charitable purposes or such purposes relating to the hospital services of the Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Foundation Trust or to any other part of the health service at any hospital for the benefit of patients and their families and staff of the hospitals as well as sponsoring research which benefit the sufferers of cardiac and thoracic illnesses. | £10,269,000
<strong>ALDER HEY CHILDREN'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1160661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160661)]<br>Alder Hey Children's Charity raises vital funds to help make Alder Hey Children's Hospital a truly world-class, patient-friendly hospital for the 330,000 patients and families we care for every year. We are inspired by children; they stand at the heart of everything we do, driving us to raise money so the hospital can deliver the best care possible. | £9,511,000
<strong>HARLINGTON HOSPICE ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1099332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099332)]<br>The charity provides a  10 bedded hospice inpatient unit, domiciliary care, hospice at home service, day care hospice, Lymphoedema clinic and family support.The charity  runs 6 charity shops. | £6,236,763
<strong>THE FIVE TOWNS PLUS HOSPICE FUND LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [514999](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-514999)]<br>To operate the Prince of Wales Hospice, Pontefract as a centre for specialist palliative care available and accessible to all from the local community and particularly the five towns area east of Wakefield. | £4,869,240


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THE HOSPITAL CHAPEL</strong> [Charity number: [1121097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121097)]<br>The Friends raise funds to conserve and maintain the Hospital Chapel of St. Mary & St. Thomas of Canterbury, the oldest building in the London Borough of Redbridge, cca 1145 AD.In addition to regular religious Services, we ensure the Chapel is open to the public byholding Open Days with guided tours, as well as concerts, recitals, history talks etc. | £1,256
<strong>JESS GRANT CELEBRATION</strong> [Charity number: [1179649](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179649)]<br>RAISING FUNDS TO SUPPORT ADDENBROOKES HOSPITAL, IPSWICH HOSPITAL & EAST ANGLIAN CHILDREN?S HOSPICES.  MAKING GRANTS TOWARDS FUNDING A MUSIC THERAPY POST, SUPPLYING MUSIC TROLLEYS THAT CAN BE USED FOR MUSICAL ACTIVITIES WHILE CHILDREN ARE STAYING IN HOSPITAL, & PROVIDING GIFTS OF MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS OR OTHER MUSIC RELATED ITEMS TO INDIVIDUALS, VIA REQUESTS FROM THE HOSPITAL PAEDIATRIC DEPARTMENTS. | £8,793
<strong>GUILD OF FRIENDS OF CAMBORNE-REDRUTH COMMUNITY HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [1020788](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1020788)]<br>To provide equipment and furnishings for the benefit of patients and staff at the hospital. | £3,460
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE FALMOUTH HOSPITALS</strong> [Charity number: [213983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213983)]<br>We raise money in the Falmouth and Penryn area for the benefit of patients - currently the advancement of health or saving lives, children and young people, elderlyand old and the general public. | £5,261
<strong>INNER WHEEL CLUB OF RHYL BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1031026](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1031026)]<br>Our charity makes donations to local organisations, such as the local hospice, hospital, and lifeboat, also to overseas appeals for aid. | £2,315
<strong>BraveheartsNi</strong> [Charity number: [NI101055](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101055)]<br>A charity to provide for and support teenagers and young adults and their families in NI who have Congenital or acquired heart disease. Once a child with CHD turns 14 they are transitioned into the adult congenital cardiac service where they remain in limbo until they are 18. They are too young to be admitted into the adult hospital and therefore must wait until a private room becomes available before they can receive treatment. BraveheartsNi, identifies and supports the needs of patients and their families living with congenital and acquired heart disease (CHD) in Northern Ireland. BraveheartsNi will support the patients and their families from their transition period of 14 years old when they move from the children’s cardiac service into the adult service (ACHD). We will provide patients what they need when they need it to ensure that their daily journey living with this disease is supported and the burdens lessened. As volunteers all monies raised will be used to provide for the CHD community and educate society as to their needs and reach out to others facing the disease on their own. We will endeavour to raise funds to provide research opportunities for the CHD team in NI. We will fundraise to provide a teenager ‘chillout’ area within the adult hospital where the can relax within an environment that is supportive of their young needs. A young teenager with CHD devised BraveheartsNi after spending many months trudging through this process in NI and meeting another young boy who was in the adult cardiac room for over 3 months and who came from a care home. He had no visitors, general bedtime/washing equipment and the room had no TV or any facilities a young boy would need. He went into a very deep depression and with the help of the Liaison nurse and the other teenager he started to thrive with the interaction of a befriending service and his personal needs and some spending money were provided for him | £88,331
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF THE HOSPITALS OF LUTON AND DUNSTABLE</strong> [Charity number: [201201](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201201)]<br>To raise and provide funds for the purpose of either supplementing in such a manner as the Friends think fit the resources of the hospital services or putting such funds or part thereof at the disposal of the Hospital Management Committee of the Hospitals. | £306
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE BRECON HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [703090](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-703090)]<br>To collect and administer funds from street collections, public fairs, funeral donations, legacies and contributions and run fund raising public events. To apply income and capital to improve facilities and services of Brecon Hospital for the benefit of patients, former patients, staff and visitors where not provided by LHB/NHS.To provide these benefits to other activities assisting patients | £27,778
<strong>BRITISH FRIENDS OF ISLAMGARH WELFARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1117121](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117121)]<br>Raise funds to meet the aspirations for Islamgarh Welfare Trust (IWT,) which provides primary health care and community education facilities for the poor and needy people in and around the town of Islamgarh in Mirpur, AK, Pakistan. The IWT has just completed construction of a Community Hospital. | £32,937
<strong>THE SIR JOHN GOLDING FUND</strong> [Charity number: [327619](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327619)]<br>The funds are principally used to support the Sir John Golding Rehabilitation Centre in Jamaica. | £18,839
