# Friends of healthcare provider `HE501`

Friends of healthcare provider is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Health](HE.md) categoryand the Healthcare provider support subcategory.

564 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.28% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(league of friends|friends of .* (hospital|health centre|hospice|surgery|infirmary ))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 220 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 226 | 0.32%
£100k - £250k | 45 | 0.20%
£250k - £500k | 31 | 0.28%
£500k - £1m | 15 | 0.22%
£1m - £10m | 11 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.04%
Total | 549 | 0.28%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 506 | 0.30%
oscr | 54 | 0.22%
ccni | 4 | 0.06%
Total | 564 | 0.28%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Strathcarron Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC006704](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006704)]<br>1. To promote the relief of suffering (so far as such purpose is charitable) in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining and conducting Residential Nursing Homes and Hospices (hereinafter referred to as a Hospice the singular being understood to include the plural) in Scotland for the reception and care of persons of either sex (without regard to race or creed) who are suffering (at any age) from any chronic or terminal illness or from any disability or disease associated with or attributable to old age or from any other physical or mental infirmity and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons in their own homes. (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or terminal illnesses. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of any persons engaged in any medical or paramedical field and particularly in the training of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services, and in the teaching or training of students in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services. (D) By assisting or encouraging the provision of spiritual help and guidance in accordance with the teaching and example of Christ for any persons resident (either as patients or otherwise) or working in the Hospice. (E) By providing a counselling service and practical care and support for the relatives and friends of patients in or connected with the  Hospice. | £12,757,419
<strong>THE MEDWAY LEAGUE OF FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [1172065](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1172065)]<br>The objects of this Charitable Incorporated Organisation  are the relief of sickness and the promotion of good health and wellbeing of patients of NHS services in Medway.  It began operating on 1 August 2018, taking over from the Unincorporated Charity (Registered Number 240562) which carried out the same function previously. | £2,067,742
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF TEDDINGTON MEMORIAL HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [1130645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130645)]<br>TO SUPPORT THE CHARITABLE WORK OF THE HOSPITAL AND RAISE FUNDS TO SUPPORT AND IMPROVE FACILITIES AT THE HOSPITAL AND TO RELIEVE PATIENTS AND FORMER PATIENTS OF THE HOSPITAL OR PEOPLE IN THE LONDON BOROUGH OF RICHMOND UPON THAMES WHO ARE SICK, CONVALESCENT, DISABLED, HANDICAPPED, INFIRM OR IN NEED OF MEDICAL ATTENTION OR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE | £1,953,762
<strong>CARDIFF AND VALE UNIVERSITY LOCAL HEALTH BOARD GENERAL PURPOSE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1056544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1056544)]<br>The Cardiff and Vale Local Health Board General Purpose Charity covers the charitable objectives relating to the NHS services provided by the Cardiff and Vale Local Health Board. The work of the Charity helps to enhance and support the services provided by the UHB which is primarily to provide day-to-day health services to around 500,000 people living in Cardiff and the Vale of Glamorgan. | £1,852,000
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE KENT AND CANTERBURY HOSPITAL CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1155088](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155088)]<br>The League is a Charitable Incorporated Organisation and its charitable objectives are to relieve sickness and to preserve and protect good health for the public benefit by supporting the work of the Kent and Canterbury Hospital by such means as the trustees deem appropriate. | £1,845,550
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE ROYAL UNITED HOSPITALS (BATH)</strong> [Charity number: [1176686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176686)]<br> PROVIDING COMFORT AND AMENITIES AND PATIENT SUPPORT FOR THE ROYAL UNITED HOSPITAL BATH | £1,749,326
<strong>EAST SUFFOLK AND NORTH ESSEX NHS FOUNDATION TRUST CHARITABLE FUNDS</strong> [Charity number: [1048827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048827)]<br>Healthcare associated with the running of a large general hospital. | £1,573,581
<strong>LEAGUE OF FRIENDS MUSGROVE PARK HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [250797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250797)]<br>To raise funds and invite and receive contributions by way of subscriptions, donations or otherwise to supplement as the League thinks fit the resources of the hospital service in consultation with Somerset NHS Foundation Trust; to support the hospital by means of voluntary service; to provide facilities for patients and relatives. | £1,495,529
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE WILLIAM HARVEY HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [1122585](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122585)]<br>Fundraising to provide equipment for the William Harvey Hospital | £1,379,127
<strong>Friends of Eastbourne Hospital</strong> [Charity number: [220592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220592)]<br>The Objects of the Friends shall be to provide relief and assistance for patients and staff at the Eastbourne Hospitals of the East Sussex Healthcare NHS Trust and the community NHS services provided centrally by other NHS and primary care trusts to the extent that the same was provided formerly by Eastbourne and County Healthcare NHS Trust. | £1,343,565


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KNIGHTON HOSPITAL AND COMMUNITY LEAGUE OF FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [504349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-504349)]<br>To support patients and former patients of the Knighton Hospital and others in the community who are ill or convalescing and people with disabilities or in the need of assistance. | £16,001
<strong>Friends of Kiwoko Hospital</strong> [Charity number: [NI104586](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104586)]<br>Friends of Kiwoko provides information to donors regarding the work of the Hospital by sending out newsletters and updates from the Hospital, running the website and holding meetings at least once a year which are addressed, when possible by those returning from the hospital or currently working in the hospital. Friends of Kiwoko provides medical equipment and assistance (non-financial) in the co-ordination of a number of visits by volunteers from Northern Ireland who deliver training to the hospital staff in Kiwoko. | £365,898
<strong>Altnagelvin Hospital Choir</strong> [Charity number: [NI103144](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103144)]<br>The Altnagelvin Hospital Choir Purpose 1 contributes to the annual memorial service for the Critical Care Unit in hymns & anthems, Carol sings the wards at Christmas, contributes music to occasional events like the Nurses’ Conference, BBC Songs of Praise, the Derry Choral Festival (in the Choral Trail, at the Hospice), the Altnagelvin Hospital Healing Arts Project, etc. Purpose 2 a membership of up to 50 rehearses two hours weekly in the Hospital, singing two major concerts annually. It holds at least one social function annually & has instituted a Friends of Altnagelvin Choir to widen support for its activities. Purpose 3 sings annual concerts in important local venues to large audiences, performs in local festivals and events & disseminates information on artistic events through its substantial contact lists. Purpose 4 uses young musicians as instrumentalists & concert soloists in its recitals, encourages young singers to join as members & provides bursaries & grants to suitable cases. Purpose 5 donates the proceeds of its activities, after the deduction of costs, to charitable causes including the local Hospice, Child Line & Foyle Search & Rescue & wherever possible, provides assistance to those causes practically. | £11,449
<strong>LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF MILFORD HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [204748](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-204748)]<br>The Charity raises funds for the benefit of patients and staff by way of fund raising and subscriptions.   It also provides volunteers for various activities at the Hospital and ensures that the needs of the Hospital are made known to the public | £4,070
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF ANDOVER WAR MEMORAIL HOSPITAL AND HEALTH CENTRES</strong> [Charity number: [264217](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-264217)]<br>To raise monies to relieve patients and former patients of Andover War Memorial Hospital and Healthcare centres and other invalids in the community who are sick, convalescent, disabled or infirm and generally to support the charitable works of the Hospital and Healthcare centres | £37,530
<strong>WEST BERKSHIRE COMMUNITY HOSPITAL LEAGUE OF FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [246183](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-246183)]<br>The principal objective of the League is to help and benefit patients and medical staff at the West Berkshire Community Hospital.  It seeks to meet its objective by funding the purchase of medical equipment for use within the West Berkshire Community Hospital and by Community Nursing.  This equipment would not otherwise be available and the League selects equipment on the basis of merit and need | £165,622
<strong>FRIENDS OF BARNES HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [290489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-290489)]<br>London Borough of Richmond. Supporting patients of Barnes Hospital (a Mental Health facility) and people with a health need in the community in the area covered. Some active fundraising. Donations, including legacies, are received from members of the Friends and from local organisations. | £7,676
<strong>ALDER HEY CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL LEAGUE OF FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [507222](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-507222)]<br>Fund raising to purchase equipment and provide improved facilities for the patients in Alder Hey Childrens Hospital annd their families | £38,578
<strong>THE LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF THE NORTH TEES HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [511174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511174)]<br>As our name suggests, we are a friendly group whose main fundraising activity is the provision of refreshments for patients, staff and visitors from our coffee bar in North Tees Hospital. Funds raised provide patient comforts and amenities not available through the NHS. | £55,542
<strong>THE SOUTHPORT FRIENDS OF ALYN ORTHOPAEDIC HOSPITAL FOR CHILDREN JERUSALEM</strong> [Charity number: [281985](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-281985)]<br>Hospital in Israel | £1,951
