# Housing `HO`

Housing is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](HO.md) category.

13,057 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 6.44% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(accommodat(\w)*|tenan(t|ts|cy)+|shelter|living quarters?|place to stay)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,138 | 4.25%
£10k - £100k | 4,292 | 6.23%
£100k - £250k | 1,659 | 7.85%
£250k - £500k | 941 | 9.24%
£500k - £1m | 733 | 11.50%
£1m - £10m | 1,296 | 14.97%
Over £10m | 326 | 15.52%
Total | 12,385 | 6.48%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 10,866 | 6.36%
oscr | 1,451 | 5.88%
ccni | 740 | 10.28%
Total | 13,057 | 6.44%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £330,600,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £307,341,207
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £277,273,000
<strong>METHODIST HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1083995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083995)]<br>Methodist Homes is a charity providing care, accommodation and support services for older people throughout Britain.  We are one of the largest charitable care providers in the sector and amongst the largest charities in Britain, providing services to 15,000 older people for nearly 70 years. | £268,825,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>Wheatley Homes Glasgow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC034054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034054)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £246,252,000
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>Leonard Cheshire Disability</strong> [Charity number: [SC005117](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005117)]<br>Leonard Cheshire's objects are to relieve the consequences of physical and or mental disability by the provision, in the United Kingdom and overseas, of accommodation, services and support for the spiritual, social, physical andlor mental wellbeing of disabled people, by such means as are charitable, whatever their race, nationality, creed, sex or age. | £152,573,000
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £146,839,345


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Brownlow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100281](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100281)]<br>Brownlow Ltd are the local specialists in enterprise and small business development. Established 1989 to spearhead the social and economic regeneration of the Brownlow area of Craigavon, we seek to culitivate the spirit of entrepreneurship within the Brownlow area. The company is pro active in providing help and guidance and stimulating local enterprise development. The main areas Brownlow Ltd are involved with are: •Enterprise Development including mentoring and small business initiatives •Workspace provision and property management •Infrastructure improvement •Community development The main aims are: •Sustaining / improving small business activity levels in the central area of Craigavon •Economic growth and development of the Brownlow area •Increasing local business start up rates Brownlow Ltd provides: •Modern Light industrial and retail units available in a variety of sizes and in different locations at competitive rates •Business advice and support •Information and sign posting to alternative sources of enterprise assistance •Tailored and confidential advisory / mentoring sessions - Easy in easy out tenancy •Our tenants can also avail of our extensive range of administrative support service, including photcopying, faxing, broadband internet access and the use of an interview room as well as a board room, IT Suite and / or training room •Small Business Programmes: Brownlow Ltd has substantial experience and proven track record of successfully designing and delivering a comprehensive range of enterprise support and development initiative •Finance for business may be available in the form of a soft loan to help set up businesses in the Brownlow area - Develop community linkages by building relationships with local resident groups | £374,800
<strong>GRIT STREET AID</strong> [Charity number: [1183979](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183979)]<br>Grit Street Aid provides mobile assistance to around 50 rough sleepers and homeless each week throughout  Greater Manchester. We offer help to people where they live on the street, providing food, clothing, and other basic essentials. We also advocate for our service users, in conjunction with the Street Support Network,  and we hope to provide our service users with better access into services. | £21,669
<strong>SUUBI AFRICA (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1129595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129595)]<br>Working with an organisation in Uganda called Suubi-Africa to provide a home for orphaned, abandoned, deprived children and their supporting families, also other disadvantaged members of the community where operating. | £124,566
<strong>DOGS FOR HEALTH</strong> [Charity number: [1191801](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191801)]<br>The objects of the CIO are To support people who are in need regardless of their age, disability, health or social circumstances. Particularly but not exclusively by the provision of pets and their volunteer owners or carers visiting individuals homes or visiting public places such as hospitals, workplaces, care and nursing homes and schools. To share learning and resources. | £5,170
<strong>THE YARDLEY GREAT TRUST GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1091937](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091937)]<br>The charity's aims are to:provide relief and care, including day care and outreach services and care homes, for elderly and/or disabled persons;provide and manage almshouses for residents in need;relieve those in need hardship or distress generally or individually by making grants;let allotment land belonging to the Trust. | £6,246,185
<strong>The Island Of Hoy Development Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038909)]<br>2 The company’s objects are to benefit the Community in the following ways: 2.1 to manage community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general as an important part of the protection and sustainable development of Scotland’s natural environment, where “sustainable development” means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 2.2 to provide in the interests of social welfare, facilities within the Community for recreation and other leisure time occupation available to the public at large. 2.3 to advance education and in particular to promote opportunities for learning for the benefit of the general public. 2.4 to advance education through promotion of the arts. 2.5 to preserve, restore and improve the environment in through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environment and regeneration projects (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefits so arising clearly outweigh any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners). 2.6 to provide or assist in the provision of housing for people in necessitous circumstances within the Community. 2.7 to relieve poverty particularly among the residents of the Community. 2.8 to promote training, particularly among residents of the Community, and with particular reference to skills which will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment. 2.9 to encourage, stimulate and support volunteering principally in the Community. 2.10 to preserve, for the benefit of the general public, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist in and around the Community in buildings (including any structure or erection, and any part of a building as so defined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest.  Maximum text reached. for further objects please contact the charity directly. | £1,013,263
<strong>Ebenezer Baptist Chapel</strong> [Charity number: [1152197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152197)]<br>The Church's aims are to spread the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and to edify thecongregation through the preaching and teaching of the Word of God, the circulation of goodChristian literature, and the support of missionary endeavour at home and abroad. | £81,488
<strong>Acorn The Business Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI101481](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101481)]<br>Facilitate local economic regeneration by the provision of information, advice and training on the following means known to alleviate economic inactivity • Entrepreneurship • Business development • Business training • Personal development Provide practical support through the use of expertise, business incubation workspace, business incubation offices, training rooms, referrals and signposting to related services. Expertise All trainers are quality approved by Enterprise Northern Ireland, they are members of the Institute of Consulting and they have further stringent approval requirements from organisations that fund entrepreneurship and business development. Business incubation and business development workspace • Rents generally fixed for 3 to 5 years. • Incubation start up discounts and free start up periods negotiable • Landlord on site • Modern industrial, warehouse and office units in a secure, pleasant environment • Nightly gate lock up by caretaker but 24-hour access available to premises if required • Each unit with toilet facilities • Free use of Acorn Business Centre conference and training room. • Administrative services available for nominal cost • Licence charged by calendar month in advance. One month’s notice to end licence • Free mail collection point service • Landlord pays water charges • Ample car parking for tenants and visitors • No separate service charges • Compliance costs such as Electrical Tests, Energy performance Certs - free Training and Signposting The framework of support available through our organisation includes one-to-one training, group training, individual mentoring, online facilities such as webinars, YouTube resources, dedicated web sites such nibusinessinfo and businessplannavigator, and guests from the successful businesses to motivate and encourage. The business organisations in the support framework that exists in Northern Ireland are many and diverse however our organisation can leverage it for local advantage. | £39,000
<strong>BIG ISSUE NORTH TRUST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1056041](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1056041)]<br>The Big Issue North Trust supports the homeless and vulnerably housed people who sell Big Issue North magazine in the North West, Yorkshire and the Humber. From providing financial aid during periods of hardship, to funding education and training courses, to projects such as breakfast clubs and home furnishing packages, it exists to help vendors to change their lives and achieve their goals. | £924,817
<strong>BRAYWOOD SCHOOL HOME AND SCHOOL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1041724](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041724)]<br>Parent Teacher Association runs Christmas fayre, summer fayre, quiz nights, childrens' disco in order to generate funds for Braywood C.E. First School. | £6,758
