# Temporary or emergency housing `HO105`

Temporary or emergency housing is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](/data/ukcat/HO) category.

531 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.26% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((emergency|temporary) (secure )?(housing|acc?[ao]mm?[ao]dation)|hostel|night (centre|shelter)|refuge)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 94 | 0.12%
£10k - £100k | 116 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 58 | 0.28%
£250k - £500k | 64 | 0.65%
£500k - £1m | 72 | 1.17%
£1m - £10m | 86 | 1.01%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.15%
Total | 493 | 0.26%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 436 | 0.26%
oscr | 57 | 0.23%
ccni | 38 | 0.53%
Total | 531 | 0.26%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £25,388,031
<strong>Habinteg Housing Association (Ulster) Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI103066](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103066)]<br>Habinteg plans, develops and manages social housing schemes in urban and rural areas throughout Northern Ireland and works with a number of partner organisations in providing supported accommodation. The Association has a voluntary Board and 80+ members of staff based at offices in Holywood, Derry/Londonderry and residentially across the region. The Association’s directly managed housing stock provides a vast range of housing solutions, from large and medium sized suburban developments to inner city apartments to individual rural cottages. Partnership projects include sensitively designed housing with care schemes, temporary accommodation for people who are homeless, and housing initiatives for people with additional physical, mental and/or social needs. Managed housing stock is in excess of 1800 units at more than 90 locations and 18 partnership projects. | £19,668,699
<strong>Extern Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI105869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105869)]<br>Extern delivers it purpose through a range of service delivery models. These include: - Residential accommodation including our approved accommodation for those with an offending past, our homeless hostel and our three residential activity centres. - One to one support - we meet people at their point of need and deliver services using a person-centred approach. - Client advocacy - we ensure that the voices of our clients are heard and that this is central to all our service delivery. | £11,165,419
<strong>BLACK COUNTRY WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1032298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032298)]<br>Provision of support,and emergency services to vulnerable women and children experiencing rape, sexual assault and domestic abuse. Services include provision of emergency accommodation, floating support services, community  support and counselling. Services also include development with agencies to raise awareness of domestic abuse and develop support systems to enable them to access SWA services. | £8,600,515
<strong>BIRMINGHAM AND SOLIHULL WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1073926](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073926)]<br>BSWAID is working with women and children affected by domestic violence by:offering safe temporary accommodation, appropriate and accessible support services includingsupporting women in accessing justice system. The charity raises awareness and promotes action against Domestic violence and promotes policy and best practice that responds to women and children's needs. | £7,982,109
<strong>SOUTHERN DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1146773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146773)]<br>Southern Domestic Abuse Service  provides inclusive services services to women, children, young people & men affected by domestic abuse. Services include: Refuge accommodation, Community based outreach services, IDVA Services, Women only group work, Specialist work with children/young people, FGM Community Work/Development, work with perpetrators, domestic abuse preventative work and training. | £7,963,938
<strong>JULIAN HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1183751](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183751)]<br>Julian House provides a range of services to socially excluded people across the South West; particularly in the areas of homelessness, domestic abuse and community rehabilitation.  We operate  a range of supported housing projects, emergency hostel accommodation, advice services, assertive outreach support and a number of social enterprises.  Not just changing lives.  Often saving lives | £7,638,933
<strong>SAFENET DOMESTIC ABUSE AND SUPPORT SERVICES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1091544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091544)]<br>Provision of housing related support (refuge support) and support in the community for women and their children escaping domestic abuse. Outreach support and help line for domestic abuse victims living in the community.IDVA service to support domestic abuse victims in legal and court processes.Early Support service for children living in the community and at risk of domestic violence. | £7,546,000
<strong>INDEPENDENT DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102337)]<br>Provides refuge accommodation, advice, advocacy, and practical support for women and their children experiencing domestic abuse. | £5,836,915
<strong>Ark Housing Association Northern Ireland Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI104547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104547)]<br>The charity undertakes the planning, development and construction of new homes for persons in housing need We allocate our homes on a social/affordable rental basis to those in housing need We undertake the management and maintenance of our properties of behalf of our tenants and service users We carry out disability adaptations works, cyclical and planned maintenance and stock improvement schemes on our properties for our tenants We deliver a comprehensive housing management service for our tenants and prospective tenants including housing allocations, housing transfers, rent accounting and arrears management, anti-social behaviour services, management of tenant and resident complaints and tenant engagement and participation services We provide temporary accommodation for homeless families We provide housing advice and homeless support services to our tenants and service users | £5,584,615


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>HAY,BRECON AND TALGARTH SANCTUARY FOR REFUGEES</strong> [Charity number: [1173570](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173570)]<br>HBTSR HELPS PEOPLE SEEKING ASYLUM/REFUGE  BY PROVIDING THEM WITH OUTINGS TO THE COUNTRYSIDE FOR LEISURE, FRIENDSHIP AND SKILL EXCHANGE.  WE HELP OUR OWN LOCAL COMMUNITIES TO MEET PEOPLE FROM OTHER CULTURES AND BE ENRICHED BY THIS. WE SPEAK PUBLICLY AND RAISE FUNDS. WE APPROACH LOCAL ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES TO IMPROVE POLICY AND SUPPORT.WE PROVIDE SOME EXPERT ASSISTANCE AND COLLECT GOODS. | £37,272
<strong>CARERS ANONYMOUS ANIMAL REFUGE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1147495](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147495)]<br>To relieve & prevent suffering & distress in animals., particularly dogs, cats, horses, ponies,goats & domestic fowl & other such creatures in need of care & attention, rescue, sanctuary or re-homing by provision of such services as the charity shall from time to time decide.To advance public education in matters concerning animal welfare and aid. | £28,340
<strong>ROCHDALE ACTION WITH DESTITUTE ASYLUM SEEKERS AND REFUGEES</strong> [Charity number: [1195518](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195518)]<br>Provide temporary accommodation and support to destitute asylum seekers and refugees. | £14,376
<strong>Shelter, Campaign for Homeless People (Northern Ireland) Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100767](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100767)]<br>We publish what we do in an annual report. We help older people make their home suitable for independent living by assisting with documentation and professional help. We mediate with contractors in disputes. This prevents the risk of homelessness for 4-500 households per year currently. We measure satisfaction rates for our service and we gather data to support our campaigning. We support young homeless people16-25 to prepare for independent living, through employment or training, reducing their risk of poverty and cyclical homelessness. Currently we aid 25 young people per year, but that programme is expanding. We campaign to Stormont Ministers, Assembly Committees, Departments and other statutory bodies regarding homelessness and adequate levels of supply. We prepare briefings to MLAs, correspond, respond to strategy, policy or legislative proposals, release press statements and host seminars and conferences to address poor housing and homelessness. We educate and inform the general public about homelessness and poor housing, temporary accommodation and the support needed for vulnerable households who are homeless or at risk of homelessness. We also comment on the level of housing need and supply. We do presentations on these issues by invitation or by arrangement with schools or other groups of people or individuals. We also promote the issues associated with homelessness through the media, the internet and social media. We report on the pathways into homelessness and their impact; poor and substandard housing; housing need and supply; and related services factors. We use this information to support our campaigns and to identify innovative approaches and long term solutions to address homelessness or to prevent homelessness; and address unmet needs. We work directly and with others for those households excluded from their housing rights by any government policy or practice which places them at risk of homelessness or renders them homeless e.g. migrant people | £525,266
<strong>ST PETER'S HOSTEL FOR MEN</strong> [Charity number: [236595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-236595)]<br>General Charitable PurposesReligious Activities | £98,942
<strong>EZRA CHARITABLE TRUST CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1207927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207927)]<br>Relief of hardship to those in and around Camberley through the provision of; a community cafe, hot meals service, community fridge, temporary accommodation, signposting to local services, Christian prayer and worship. | 
<strong>LWS NIGHT SHELTER CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1185982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185982)]<br>The organisation can assist those who are homeless or vulnerably housed who are able to access theshelter. The organisation started because a demand for sheltered accommodation was identified,particularly overnight on Fridays and Saturdays, for those who are homeless or vulnerably housed. Theorganisation therefore aims to benefit those people by offering accommodation and food. | £49,081
<strong>PORT TALBOT AND AFAN WOMENS AID</strong> [Charity number: [1014363](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014363)]<br>We provide a range of support services for women and children who have experienced domestic abuse. This includes emergency refuge accommodation and supported housing at our move-on . We also provide a range of specialist services for children affected by domestic abuse, including after school clubs. | £1,481,633
<strong>AYLESBURY WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1054308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1054308)]<br>Provision of places of refuge, advice, support and advocacy for women and their children who are the victims of domestic violence and abuse. | £973,180
<strong>Sarajia Islamic Studies and Community Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC052208](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052208)]<br>The advancement of the religion of Islam in accordance with the Tenets and Doctrines of Holy Qur'an and Sunnah (the practice of Holy Prophet Muhammad 'Peace be upon him').  In furtherance of this purpose we will create facilities for the observance of its principles, promote the preservation of a permanent union between the Muslims of different countries and different nationalities, arrange meetings and organise functions with a view to propagate and serve the cause of Islam, and raise funds for building a Mosque in Bathgate, and in any other place or places and to purchase, hold and own or take on lease any property in Bathgate and elsewhere, and to alter, repair, reconstruct and maintain and use the same as a Mosque or Mosques or for any other purposes of the Company. By insisting upon the observance by Members of all the tenets of Islam, and lead a life of true Muslim, thus creating unity, amity and general brotherhood, the underlying idea of Islam. The prevention or relief of poverty by serving the cause of Islam, truly and practically, by creating facilities for observance of its principles. Also, to raise funds for the poor, this is a compulsory act in Islam known as ?SADAQAH?.  The promotion of religious or racial harmony by providing and maintaining a comfortable place of meeting to bring together and promote social integration between the resident Muslims and visitors to this country The advancement of education by promoting, providing, or assisting in the teaching of Islam in West Lothian, Scotland. Classes will also involve the teaching of Quran, mother tongue, religious studies, cultural education, and Islamic history, the provision of Islamic library facilities, and increasing awareness of the environment, culture, heritage and/or history The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended by providing opportunities for children, youth and adults to meet together in order to pursue cultural and recreational activities such as welfare advice, marriage guidance, family guidance, counselling, funeral services and humanitarian aid and also, by providing a refuge to all underprivileged areas of the Muslim Community in the UK and other countries.  The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by offering and accommodating the celebration and commemorate cultural festivals of ethnic origin, such as Eid Ul Fitr.  The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by providing the youth of any culture and faith a facility to help with drug abuse, and providing the local community with a foodbank facility.   The aims and objects of the Company shall not be altered or modified unless by the consent of the Directors and discussed and agreed at the AGM. | £24,894
