# Accommodation `HO101`

Accommodation is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](HO.md) category.

8,212 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.05% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(hous(ing|es)|land(lord|lady)|home(s)?)+\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,976 | 2.67%
£10k - £100k | 2,553 | 3.71%
£100k - £250k | 1,083 | 5.14%
£250k - £500k | 569 | 5.62%
£500k - £1m | 435 | 6.87%
£1m - £10m | 926 | 10.77%
Over £10m | 255 | 12.25%
Total | 7,797 | 4.08%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 6,633 | 3.89%
oscr | 984 | 3.98%
ccni | 595 | 8.27%
Total | 8,212 | 4.05%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £330,600,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £315,250,409
<strong>change,grow,live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>3. The objects of the Charity are to relieve poverty in particular but not exclusively through the provision of housing, to relieve sickness and to advance the education and training in particular of all persons (and members of their families) who: 3.1.1 have committed or are likely to commit a criminal act or acts. or 3.1.2 have been or are or are in danger of becoming substance misusers. or 3.1.3 have been or are or are in danger of becoming addicted to or dependent upon drugs of any description including without limitation on the generality of the foregoing illegal drugs, alcohol, solvents or other addictive substances. or 3.1.4 have been or are or are likely to become victims of domestic abuse. or 3.1.5 have been or are or are likely to become homeless. or 3.1.6 suffer mental ill health. or 3.1.7 have suffered a legal restriction on their liberty In any penal or correctional establishment. to advance the education of the public by promoting study and research into homelessness and all aspects of and methods of crime prevention and delinquency and the prevention of drug abuse and substance misuse and to disseminate the useful results of such research. to promote for the public benefit the prevention of criminal acts and of drug abuse and substance misuse and of homelessness. to promote for the public benefit the protection of people and property from criminal acts and the effects of drug abuse and substance misuse. the promotion of charitable purposes within the member countries of the European Union, for the advancement of education, the protection of health, the relief of poverty, sickness and distress and to reduce substance related harm to the individual and the wider community. and to undertake such other activities as are charitable. | £284,264,901
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £277,273,000
<strong>METHODIST HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1083995](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083995)]<br>Methodist Homes is a charity providing care, accommodation and support services for older people throughout Britain.  We are one of the largest charitable care providers in the sector and amongst the largest charities in Britain, providing services to 15,000 older people for nearly 70 years. | £268,825,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £252,746,000
<strong>Wheatley Homes Glasgow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC034054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034054)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £228,272,000
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £146,839,345
<strong>DOGS TRUST LEGACY</strong> [Charity number: [227523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227523)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accomodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms.Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices.Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £136,045,330


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PADSTOW POOR'S LAND CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [201375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201375)]<br>Provision of housing accomodation to elderly/old people of limited financial means. | £338,394
<strong>Dalry Community Sports Club SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC045250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045250)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are to benefit the community of Dalry and surrounding areas (incorporating the postcode area KA24 through  1.1 To advance public participation in sport in Dalry and the surrounding area by promoting and providing opportunities for a wide range of sporting and leisure activities in an accessible manner to all groups of people and to improve the fitness and health of the persons for whom the activities are intended.  1.2  The promotion for the benefit of the public of urban or rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation in Dalry and in the surrounding area by all or any of the following means: (a) The prevention of poverty and the relief of financial hardship by using DIGNITY principles to provide food security to those who need it most and are being disadvantaged due to unemployment, low income, lone parent, health, and social standing.  (b) Advancement of environmental protection by reducing food waste and encouraging sustainable development.  (c) Advancement of physical and mental health and wellbeing by improving health outcomes, improving emotional wellbeing and promoting social inclusion through acting as a community focal point, and by promoting access to key support such as money advice, credit unions, housing, health, employment and skills.  (d) The creation of training and employment opportunities through the provision of facilities, buildings, and/or land for use on favourable terms and for the advancement of education, training or retraining, particularly among unemployed people, and  those who by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, financial hardship or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities: (e) Bringing the community together through engagement, partnership, collaboration and co-operation and by fostering community spirit and encouraging civic pride. (f) Promote the health and wellbeing of the residents of the area and to work together as residents irrespective of age, sex, ethnicity, ability, religion or political view.  | £55,261
<strong>Morar Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039820](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039820)]<br>The promotion of rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation (and in particular the 'Community of Morar') by all or any of the following means: To provide within Morar recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. To advance education and in particular to promote opportunities for learning for the benefit of the general public. To advance the arts and/or culture. To advance environmental protection and improvement in Morar through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and regeneration projects.  To provide or assist in the provision of housing for people in necessitous circumstances within Morar. To relieve those in need by the promotion of trade and industry within Morar for the benefit of the general public. To help young people, particularly those resident in Morar, to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities, such that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society. To advance the natural history and heritage and/or preserve, for the benefit of the general public, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist in and around Morar in buildings (including any structure or erection, and any part of a building as so defined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest. To relieve the needs of people (and particularly those resident n Morar) who suffer from mental and/or physical disability, illness or impairment or have particular needs by reason of old age or current or past drug, solvent and/or alcohol abuse, and their carers and families. To advance citizenship and/or community development (including the promotion of  ** MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY** | £5,524
<strong>SOCIAL UNITY FOUNDATION OF INNOVATION TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1099904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099904)]<br>Children & Young People Projects/Actvities: 300 vulnerable young people are provided with educational,training,community services and development activities each year. Cultural, Community Cohesion and  Heritage Programmes and Health Projects are provided to improve communities quality of life.International Project: 10,750 people and 100 families provided with housing and medical aid in Pakistan. | £31,959
<strong>THE GERTRUDE HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [810365](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-810365)]<br>Management of 3 almshousesProvide assistance to residents of the village of Ickleton who are in need. | £21,778
<strong>A DOG'S TALE</strong> [Charity number: [1178178](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178178)]<br>We are a foster based rescue we take in dogs from the public,dog wardens and local council pounds. We assess the dogs at home for a minimum of 2 weeks and then we place them into suitable foster homes until they are ready for their forever homes (many need vet care so they stay in foster until cleared by the vet) we use boarding kennels when we don't have suitable fosters available | £7,962
<strong>DAVID EASTEAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [327674](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327674)]<br>We award grants to young people who are leaving care - assisting with, for example, home furnishings and home essentials. Such items as may not be covered by a leaving care grant. | £1,531
<strong>HELPING OTHERS POWERS ENCOURAGEMENT (H.O.P.E) FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1207601](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207601)]<br>1. FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF YOUTH, AGE, ILL HEALTH, DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR OTHER SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DISADVANTAGE IN THE COMMUNITY OF THE ISLE OF THANET IN THE COUNTY OF KENT AND SURROUNDING AREAS THROUGH:A) PROVIDING PRACTICAL SUPPORT AND ASSISTANCE SERVICES INCLUDING SUPPORT TO ACCESS WELFARE, BENEFITS, HOUSING;B) PROVIDING INFORMATION, ADVICE, ADVOCACY AND SIGNPOSTING TO ACCESS FURTHER SUPPORT/SERVICES;C) IN SUCH OTHER WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES MAY DETERMINE | 
<strong>THE BUTTERFLY TREE</strong> [Charity number: [1118084](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118084)]<br>Advance education - pre-school, primary, secondary, further and special education, orphan sponsorship, food security. Supports healthcare - maternity, HIV/AIDS and malaria prevention, funds treatment for sick children. Provides - safe water, sanitation, community houses and sustainable enterprises. Operates - Southern Province, Zambia. Promotes travel philanthropy and responsible tourism. | £392,685
<strong>WORTHING ANIMAL CLINIC</strong> [Charity number: [211467](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211467)]<br>The provision of subsidised veterinary services to those of demonstrable limited means (i.e. those in receipt of means-tested benefits - Housing Benefit/Local Housing Allowance, Council Tax Benefit or Pension Credit - or formally recognised as homeless) whose pets might otherwise go untreated. Clients must also live in the Worthing-Lancing-Littlehampton area (BN11-BN17). | £202,763
