# Housing association `HO104`

Housing association is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](HO.md) category.

221 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(housing association(s)*)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 21 | 0.03%
£10k - £100k | 24 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 8 | 0.04%
£250k - £500k | 5 | 0.05%
£500k - £1m | 7 | 0.10%
£1m - £10m | 88 | 0.98%
Over £10m | 64 | 2.94%
Total | 217 | 0.11%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 76 | 0.04%
ccni | 26 | 0.36%
oscr | 119 | 0.48%
Total | 221 | 0.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Wheatley Homes Glasgow Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC034054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC034054)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £300,542,000
<strong>WALSALL HOUSING GROUP LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1108779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108779)]<br>whg is one of the Midlands' leading and most successful providers of high quality housing.  Owning and managing around 22,000 homes primarily in Walsall, whg provides affordable, good quality homes and community-based services to the local community.  We are committed to working with customers, colleagues and our partners to transform the quality of life in our neighbourhoods. | £149,242,020
<strong>ST MUNGO COMMUNITY HOUSING ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1149085](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149085)]<br>St Mungo's began helping people sleeping rough off the streets of London in 1969.  Over the years we have extended our work beyond emergency help, to prevention of homelessness and promotion of recovery. We now help thousands of people across the South of England rebuild their lives day by day through housing, health and skills initiatives. | £123,668,100
<strong>Radius Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102575)]<br>Radius Housing Association provides housing, care and support to over 33,000 homes throughout Northern Ireland. Radius was established in 2017 following the merger of Helm and Fold housing associations and draws on over 80 years of combined experience to make a positive impact on housing and communities into the future. Radius is now one of the leading housing associations in Northern Ireland. Radius has also developed a range of services that allow us to offer our clients the right level of support in their own home or in our accommodation:- # Housing for Older People with Dementia and the Frail Elderly # Supported Housing # Day Care visits # Personal Pendant Alarms # Telemonitoring service (monitoring patient’s vital signs in their home) # Assistance for people with a disability to make home adaptations Radius's services are delivered in partnership with the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, the Department for Communities and the Health and Social Care Trusts. | £105,225,949
<strong>Link Group Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC001026](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001026)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are: 2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts.  | £102,020,000
<strong>Key Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC006652](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006652)]<br>The objects of the Association are: 2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £92,544,822
<strong>Apex Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106107](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106107)]<br>To provide, for the benefit of the community, housing, accommodation, assistance to help house people and associated facilities and amenities for the prevention or relief of poverty or for those in need by reason of youth, age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To carry on, for the benefit of the community, any other charitable object according to the law of Northern Ireland that can be carried out by an Industrial and Provident Society registered as a housing association by the Department | £71,644,733
<strong>MHS HOMES LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1177565](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177565)]<br>mhs homes is a housing association that helps people, often on lower incomes, who can't afford to buy a home outright. We do this by managing and maintaining our existing homes as well as building new homes.We own and manage about 8,500 homes and have about 20,000 residents. Our homes are in the Medway, Maidstone and Gravesham areas of Kent. | £71,339,000
<strong>Sanctuary Scotland Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC024549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024549)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are:  2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts. | £66,738,000
<strong>THE EXTRACARE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [327816](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327816)]<br>To provide accommodation, an active lifestyle and an independent, safe and secure future for older people in need of a stimulating and supportive environment through the development and operation of a network of inspirational communities in supported housing schemes and retirement villages. | £65,957,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Ark Housing Association Northern Ireland Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI104547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104547)]<br>The charity undertakes the planning, development and construction of new homes for persons in housing need We allocate our homes on a social/affordable rental basis to those in housing need We undertake the management and maintenance of our properties of behalf of our tenants and service users We carry out disability adaptations works, cyclical and planned maintenance and stock improvement schemes on our properties for our tenants We deliver a comprehensive housing management service for our tenants and prospective tenants including housing allocations, housing transfers, rent accounting and arrears management, anti-social behaviour services, management of tenant and resident complaints and tenant engagement and participation services We provide temporary accommodation for homeless families We provide housing advice and homeless support services to our tenants and service users | £8,014,780
<strong>Viewpoint Housing Association Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC005619](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC005619)]<br>2 The objects of the Association are: 2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts.  | £20,459,632
<strong>Orkney Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC031734](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC031734)]<br>The objects of the Association are: 2.1 to provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and 2.2 any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts.  | £9,767,041
<strong>Tarbert & Skipness Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC033379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033379)]<br>The Company’s main Purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development.  The Company’s Purposes are:  To provide or advance the accessibility of recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community.  Advancement of citizenship or Community development, including rural or urban regeneration.  To advance educational opportunities in  the Community relating to environment, culture, heritage and/or history.  To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community.  To advance the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care)  This purpose may be furthered by the provision of care to those in need in a variety of settings, provision of housing for those in need (for instance by housing associations), and by relieving the effects of ill-health  | £232,152
<strong>DEDDINGTON HOUSING ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1203055](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1203055)]<br>The charity will provide housing and associated amenities to those in need in the Parish of Deddington, continuing the work of the charitable community benefit society. Beneficiaries of the charity are those who are in need due to age and / or physical disability and/or those who may be suffering financial hardship. | £43,877
<strong>Clanmil Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103840)]<br>Clanmil Housing provides high quality, affordable homes for rent throughout Northern Ireland and helps facilitate home ownership for people who cannot afford to purchase a home outright. By providing efficient, value for money maintenance and a responsive repair service we ensure that our tenants have high quality, comfortable homes they can be proud of. We work closely with local communities and their representatives to ensure that that the homes we build really meet their needs. Our homes are well designed with energy efficiency features. We work with our tenants to develop innovative solutions to problems and deliver community development programmes that address their needs and interests. We work in partnership with local authorities, social enterprises, residents groups and other agencies on: training and access to jobs; social, sport and wellbeing programmes; reducing anti-social behaviour; helping our tenants manage their personal finances. As with many in Northern Ireland, we believe that people who wish to live in mixed neighbourhoods should have that opportunity and we are committed to continuing to deliver shared neighbourhoods. Looking to the future, we believe we can make a real difference for our tenants by focusing our efforts in four key areas: 1. Customer: We will understand our customers better and focus everything we do on providing the best possible homes and services. 2. Organisation: We will develop our people and the organisation to ensure we are best placed to deliver great homes and services that matter. 3. Growth: We will build more homes for people who need them. 4. Communication: We will communicate better with our stakeholders so that they know what decisions we have taken and why. | £53,249,805
<strong>THE ST HELENS HOUSING ASSOCIATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1001257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001257)]<br>The Trustees make grants to social housing providers operating in the St Helens area for the benefit of tenants and residents, who are elderly and live in the St Helens area. The objective is assist in the provision of housing and associated benefits for such tenant and residents. | £20,156
<strong>SUTTON AND CHEAM ELDERLY PEOPLE'S HOUSING ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [218435](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-218435)]<br>Operation of a residential home for people in need of residential care | £1,291,823
<strong>SPRING HOUSING ASSOCIATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1163098](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163098)]<br>We work to the following aims:To provide high quality accommodation for people in housing need.To prevent and reduce homelessnessTo assist people on a journey away from housing need towards a future of stability, happiness and independence.To create long term prosperity by investing to prevent homelessness, poverty and social isolation and to inspire and unlock peoples potential. | £21,364,135
<strong>West Highland Housing Association Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC017357](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017357)]<br>To provide for the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision, construction, improvement and management of land and accommodation and the provision of care. and  any other purpose or object permitted under Section 24 of the Housing (Scotland) Act 2010 which is charitable both for the purposes of Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts.  | £7,225,000
