# Homelessness `HO103`

Homelessness is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](HO.md) category.

2,439 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.20% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(homeless(ness)?|rough( |-)?sleep(ers?|ing)|no fixed abode|on the streets?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 557 | 0.78%
£10k - £100k | 677 | 0.96%
£100k - £250k | 312 | 1.39%
£250k - £500k | 222 | 2.01%
£500k - £1m | 172 | 2.47%
£1m - £10m | 281 | 3.06%
Over £10m | 60 | 2.67%
Total | 2,281 | 1.18%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,154 | 1.26%
oscr | 197 | 0.79%
ccni | 88 | 1.26%
Total | 2,439 | 1.20%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>Salvation Army Social Work Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037691)]<br>' in promoting the charitable work of the Salvation Army in such one or more of the following ways as the General for the time being of the Salvation Army shall think fit namely : (1) relief of poverty sickness suffering distress incapacity or old age. (2) advancement of education. (3) training in Christian and moral principles. and (4) assistance of those in need of protection' | £239,727,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £239,727,000
<strong>ST MUNGO COMMUNITY HOUSING ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1149085](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149085)]<br>St Mungo's began helping people sleeping rough off the streets of London in 1969.  Over the years we have extended our work beyond emergency help, to prevention of homelessness and promotion of recovery. We now help thousands of people across the South of England rebuild their lives day by day through housing, health and skills initiatives. | £124,000,694
<strong>SHELTER, NATIONAL CAMPAIGN FOR HOMELESS PEOPLE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [263710](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-263710)]<br>Shelter helps millions of people every year struggling with bad housing and homelessness through our advice, support and legal services. And we campaign to make sure that, one day, no one will have to turn to use for help.We're here so no one has to fight bad housing or homelessness on their own. | £76,960,000
<strong>Shelter The National Campaign For Homeless People Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC002327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002327)]<br>The prevention and relief of poverty. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage: Analogous Purposes. | £76,960,000
<strong>DEPAUL INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1107385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107385)]<br>Depaul International, through its subsidiaries, works with homeless and disadvantaged people in the provision of accommodation and support services in the UK, Ireland, Slovakia, Ukraine, USA, France and Croatia, with plans for expansion into other countries over time. | £73,514,000
<strong>CRISIS UK</strong> [Charity number: [1082947](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082947)]<br>Crisis is the national charity for single homeless people. We are dedicated to ending homelessness by delivering life-changing services and campaigning for change.Our innovative education, employment, housing and well-being services address individual needs and help people to transform their lives. | £67,190,000
<strong>Crisis UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC040094](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040094)]<br>The relief of poverty and distress among people who are homeless and who are suffering from social, economic or emotional distress in such manner as the Charity may in its absolute discretion think fit. | £67,190,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>GLOBAL MOVEMENT INITIATIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1182909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182909)]<br>TO RELIEF POVERTY, HARDSHIP AND DISTRESS OF HOMELESS PEOPLE TO ASSIST WITH INTEGRATING THEM BACK INTO MAINSTREAM SOCIETY BY1. THE PROVISION OF ACCOMMODATION BY BUILDING AND DEVELOPING HOUSING AND SCHOOLS;2. PROVIDING TRAINING AND MATERIALS IN SAFE LEARNING ENVIRONMENTS;3. THE PROVISION OF BASIC LIVING ESSENTIALS, HEALTHCARE AND SUPPORT IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVE TO REHABILITATION AND COUNSELLING. | 
<strong>THE SILKWORTH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1145145](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145145)]<br>feeding and clothing homeless people, recovery center for addiction | £500
<strong>ZITASES FOUNDATION CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1187673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187673)]<br>A Charity committed to transforming lives and giving hope to vulnerable individuals, by supporting the less-privileged, disability, homelessness, mental health and well-being, young adults and children in care, orphanages and general  eradication of  poverty. We help to sponsor programmes and projects for empowerment and help give individuals the opportunity to live a better and healthier life. | £450
<strong>Falkirk Homeless Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC024923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024923)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:                                                           4.1 To promote the benefits of homeless, disadvantage and disabled people in Falkirk without distinction of sex, political, religious or other opinions by associating the local and statutory authorities, voluntary organisations and inhabitants in a common effort to relieve poverty and distress by providing or assisting in the provision of practical services and goods which will help them during and after the time of homelessness, disability or disadvantage.  | £1,034
<strong>BENSHOW HOUSING</strong> [Charity number: [1205438](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205438)]<br>We provide a drop-in centre where service users come to get support with their housing and other complex needs. We run a job club to provide job skills for BME homeless people. We provide sport activities for non-sporty BME vulnerable young people. We run supplementary education to support poorly performing in school BME children.We help vulnerable BME homeless people find suitable accommodation. | £63,482
<strong>AALE MUHAMMAD CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1149826](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149826)]<br>We provide water pumps, wells to those who don't have access to clean water. We build houses for the homeless. We provide funding to help start small businesses. We help with medicine care, hospital, surgery fees. We help the disabled, widowed and orphans - providing food, shelter, shoes, clothes, educational fees and any other resources required. | £9,612
<strong>COMMUNITY CHRISTIAN CENTRE OF CHURCH OF GOD SEVENTH DAY</strong> [Charity number: [1173062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173062)]<br>THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION/ PREVENTATION OF POVERTY IN WEMBLEY AND IN SUCH OTHER PARTS OF THE UNITED KINGDOM AS WELL AS IN JAMAICA AND OTHER PARTS OF THE WEST INDIES AS THE CHARITY TRUSTEES MAY FROM TIME TO TIME DECIDE BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE PROVISION OF A PLACE OF WORSHIP AND RAISING AWARENESS AND UNDERSTANDING OF RELIGIOUS BELIEFS AND PROVIDING FOOD AND CLOTHING TO THE HOMELESS. | £17,538
<strong>ROOTED IN CHRIST MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1118088](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1118088)]<br>General charitable activities: Preaching of the gospel, Prison evangelism, oragnising seminars/workshops on the alternatives to violence, youth empowerment programmes, counselling, drop-in-services, community outreach projects like,  rehabilitation of offenders rendering help to the homeless, feeding them and supplying educational materials to children from less privileged families in Africa, etc. | £5,387
<strong>Perthshire Abandoned Dogs Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC011033](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011033)]<br>3.1 The Charitable Purposes of the Society ('the Charitable Purposes') are: 3.1.1 to shelter, protect, provide, care for, and, where appropriate, rehome abandoned, homeless and unwanted dogs, and dogs in need of care and/or rehoming, and to this end to establish and maintain one or more permanent shelters within the boundaries of Perth & Kinross. 3.1.2 to provide advice and assistance to dog owners, to include care advice, boarding services, rehoming services and where appropriate financial assistance towards some veterinary costs for dog owners of limited means. and 3.1.3 to promote, and assist in the promotion of, legislation and regulation at national and local levels which enable protection, safe-guarding and welfare of dogs and the prevention of cruelty to dogs.  | £364,683
<strong>Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC046282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046282)]<br>a) To advance the prevention or relief of poverty by: i. Helping the needy (Support the supplies of needy to ex-prisoners, homeless and less privileged people) ii. Identify the needy through the local councils and charity Scotland iii. Contribution shall include materials and financing (Clothing and feeding) iv. All support shall be within Scotland Our poverty alleviation programme is grounded in our Christian faith and love. We provide practical support programme and projects to all communities and age groups through provision of food, clothes to the homeless, educational support and training to the youths, counselling and emotional support for the elderly and vulnerable b) To provide the advancement of Christian religion through: i. Propagation of Christianity through Christian meetings, seminars, conventions, crusades. theological education. evangelical training. counselling. sponsoring of programmes for the relief of neglected, poor and elderly. publication and distributions of books, audio and video tapes ii. Making places for Christian worship available to the public in local communities within Scotland for the furtherance of Christian faith and to encourage Christian way of life iii. To continuously engage in evangelism outreaches to encourage and inform the public of Christian teachings and principles, to encourage prayer and give Christian spiritual support  iv. Establishing MFM Worldwide Church centres across Scotland - Aberdeen, Dundee, Glasgow, Inverness, Edinburgh v. Resourcing and distribution of Gospel Tracts and Christian religious books vi. Evangelizing and clarification of Christian faith in line with Pentecostal /Apostolic faith.  vii. Extension of Christian faith and support through support programmes to all classes of citizens in local communities in Scotland.c) To provide the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation by:  i. Supporting families in mediation and conflict resolution, in line with Christian faith Further objects can be obtained from the  directly from the charity  | 
