# Almshouse `HO102`

Almshouse is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Housing](HO.md) category.

1,276 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.63% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(almshouse(s)?|alms ?(people|person|women|men|woman|man|houses?|housing))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 254 | 0.34%
£10k - £100k | 697 | 1.02%
£100k - £250k | 151 | 0.72%
£250k - £500k | 67 | 0.67%
£500k - £1m | 38 | 0.61%
£1m - £10m | 38 | 0.45%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.19%
Total | 1,249 | 0.65%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,270 | 0.74%
oscr | 5 | 0.02%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 1,276 | 0.63%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE WHITGIFT FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [312612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312612)]<br>The charity has three independent schools in the Croydon Area. Fee assistance is provided to over 500 pupils by way of a means tested bursaries scheme. The charity also runs two care homes and Almshouses providing nursing care, residential care and sheltered accommodation to the elderly in the region.  In addition, we provide a Carer's Information Service for adults caring for others in Croydon. | £78,919,524
<strong>Society of Jesus Trust of 1929 for Roman Catholic Purposes</strong> [Charity number: [SC040490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040490)]<br>The provision maintenance and upkeep of churches public chapels and presbyteries belonging to or connected with the Roman Catholic Church in Great Britain: The provision maintenance and carrying on of the religious services of the said Church in such churches and public chapels or others of a like character:The provision maintenance and upkeep of houses of Study Halls and Colleges for the education and training of Priests and persons desirous of becoming Priests of the said Church: The maintenance and support of and the provision of medical and surgical aid for infirm and aged Priests and clerics of the same Church and the burial of deceased Priests and Clerics of the same Church: The provision of necessary holidays and rest of Priests and Clerics of the said Church engaged in active work for the purposes thereof but so that contributions made by the Trustees under this and the preceding sub-clause shall be made only to or in respect of persons whose own means (if any) are in the opinion of the Trustees inadequate for such purposes: The relief of poor persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion in Great Britain or nearly related to Priests or Clerics of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Schools and Colleges for the general education both religious and secular or religious or secular of children and young persons members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Homes for infirm and aged Priests and Clerics of the said Church being in the opinion of the Trustees without adequate means of support and of Almshouses for infirm and aged poor persons being, members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Rest and Retreat house for the instructing in the Doctrines of the Roman Catholic Religion of members of the said Church MAXIUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY. | £27,959,000
<strong>THE SHEPPARD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1133356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133356)]<br>The Sheppard Trust is an almshouse charity.  We provide housing for older women in need of low cost, comfortable and secure homes.   Priority is given to those in greatest need.   Residents live independently with the security of knowing their homes will remain affordable and well-maintained, and that support is on hand when needed: in emergencies or to help maintain independent living. | £27,003,439
<strong>THE SECKFORD FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1110964](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110964)]<br>The Foundation provides education and care to the young and elderly within Suffolk. This includes care at the Seckford Almshouses, the operation of Woodbridge School and (through a subsidiary company) Saxmundham, Beccles and Ixworth Free Schools. It also provides support through its grants programme to individuals and organisations and has apprenticeship and mentoring schemes. | £15,413,196
<strong>PICKERING AND FERENS HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1014862](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014862)]<br>Pickering and Ferens Homes operates in the city of Kingston upon Hull and the East Riding of Yorkshire, is a registered housing association, a registered charity and a member of the National Association of Almshouses.  The Charity manages approximately 1200 homes.  The Charity's mission statement is to provide excellent quality homes and services which enhance later life. | £9,328,305
<strong>AMICUS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [268639](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268639)]<br>Supporting single homeless people and enabling them to achieve and sustain an independent life.We provide Supported Accomodation.  We provide support to get people into Education & EmploymentWe are also the Corporate Trustee of Charlotte Beaty's Almshouses | £7,504,800
<strong>UNITED ST SAVIOUR'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1103731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103731)]<br>Grant making and other support to Southwark beneficiary organisations. Advice and guidance to Southwark individuals. Provision of almshouse accommodation to Southwark residents over 60 on limited income. Research activities | £5,801,525
<strong>ST. JOHN'S FOUNDATION EST. 1174</strong> [Charity number: [201476](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201476)]<br>The provision of almshouse accommodation for people resident in Bath and the surrounding area who are over 65 years of age and who are in financial need as well as providing grants and financial support to individuals and organisations within the Bath area for those in need. | £5,344,980
<strong>THE YARDLEY GREAT TRUST GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1091937](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091937)]<br>The charity's aims are to:provide relief and care, including day care and outreach services and care homes, for elderly and/or disabled persons;provide and manage almshouses for residents in need;relieve those in need hardship or distress generally or individually by making grants;let allotment land belonging to the Trust. | £5,284,601
<strong>CHARITY OF SIR RICHARD WHITTINGTON</strong> [Charity number: [1087167](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087167)]<br>1. The administration of two thriving almshouse communities for the elderly, one in London and one in Surrey, providing homes for nearly 100 individuals 2.Grant making, primarily  for the relief of need and to support the elderly. | £4,153,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>JESUS HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [201134](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201134)]<br>The object of the charity is to provide almshouses for poor men, not less than sixty years of age and of good character who are resident in the County of Northamptonshire and preferably in the Urban district of Rothwell, at the time of appointment. A total of ten almshouses are available to meet this object. | £103,640
<strong>NORMAN ALMSHOUSES CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [213558](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213558)]<br>Letting, upkeep and general maintenance of 7 Almshouses for elderly, poor or needy residents of Northwold. | £31,274
<strong>ORMROD AND HACKEY HOME</strong> [Charity number: [507677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-507677)]<br>We run a converted listed building in the village of Newburgh in West Lancashire as an Almshouse Charity. There are 6 flats, 4 of them with bedroom and living room, 2 with bed-sitting accommodation. all with shower/toilet and kitchen. The residents are primarily elderly people with strong local connections. At times also younger residents  needing local accommodation to support elderly parents. | £17,792
<strong>WISHFORD UNITED CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [202815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202815)]<br>Provides almshouse accommodation for two poor people of the parish of Great Wishford. Provides assistance to poor boys of the parish undergoing apprenticeships. | £8,928
<strong>THE AUGUSTA WILDER ALMSHOUSE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [201414](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201414)]<br>The trust provides accommodation for elderly ladies, preferably of the protestant faith. | £12,926
<strong>THE HEREFORD SOCIETY FOR AIDING THE INDUSTRIOUS</strong> [Charity number: [212220](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-212220)]<br>Provides and maintains almshouses for elderly people in Herefordshire. Give donations to people in need who are or were industrious and require money to get over a hurdle provided they live in Herefordshire. | £151,400
<strong>THE NICHOLL AND DANIEL HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [249197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249197)]<br>PROVISION OF ALMSHOUSE ACCOMMODATION FOR  16 NEEDY PERSONS OVER 50 YEARS OF AGE. | £72,042
<strong>THE HALLATON AND ISABELLA STENNING TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [216115](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216115)]<br>Provision of 16 almshouses providing villagers with affordable accommodation enabling them to stay in Hallaton when the high cost of housing in the village may otherwise prevent them from being able to do so.Providing recreational facilities and grants on approved application for inhabitants of Hallaton & surrounding neighbourhood for education or need. | £294,513
<strong>THE JOHN COLEY ALMSHOUSES</strong> [Charity number: [220512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220512)]<br>Providing accommodation for local people of limited means. | £37,823
<strong>BAKER AND TUCKER ALMSHOUSE CHARITY (OTHERWISE BOURTON ALMSHOUSES)</strong> [Charity number: [203879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-203879)]<br>Provision of accomodation for persons who qualify as almspeople under the terms of the trust deed. In the absence of qualifying almspeople the trustees may rent houses to others who the trustees consider deserving. | £17,243
