# Heritage `HR`

Heritage is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](HR.md) category.

13,565 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 6.67% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(heritage)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 5,349 | 7.51%
£10k - £100k | 4,387 | 6.23%
£100k - £250k | 1,222 | 5.45%
£250k - £500k | 715 | 6.46%
£1m - £10m | 578 | 6.30%
£500k - £1m | 414 | 5.94%
Over £10m | 130 | 5.78%
Total | 12,795 | 6.61%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 9,269 | 5.40%
oscr | 3,836 | 15.38%
ccni | 460 | 6.58%
Total | 13,565 | 6.67%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>University Of Glasgow Court</strong> [Charity number: [SC004401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004401)]<br>The advancement of education. The advancement of health. The advancement of, arts, heritage, culture, or science. | £1,070,400,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL TRUST FOR PLACES OF HISTORIC INTEREST OR NATURAL BEAUTY</strong> [Charity number: [205846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205846)]<br>To look after places of historic interest or natural beauty permanently for the benefit of the nation across England, Wales and Northern Ireland. | £766,195,000
<strong>University Of Strathclyde</strong> [Charity number: [SC015263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015263)]<br>The advancement of education. The advancement of arts, heritage, culture, or science. | £433,257,000
<strong>University Of St Andrews</strong> [Charity number: [SC013532](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013532)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £353,331,000
<strong>University Of Aberdeen</strong> [Charity number: [SC013683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013683)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of health.  The advance ment of civic responsibility and community development.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £266,238,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £251,300,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [209603](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209603)]<br>To save lives, promote safety and rescue service efficiency, and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters; to advance the education of the public in matters relating to sea, inland and flood water safety, and in the history and heritage of the Institution; to relieve/assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity. | £251,300,000
<strong>CANAL & RIVER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146792)]<br>Canal & River Trust is the charitable operator and guardian of 2,000 miles of historic waterways across England and Wales. In addition to caring for the waterways so that they are available for the public to enjoy, the Trust maintains the nations' third largest collection of listed heritage structures, as well as museums, archives, and hundreds of important wildlife sites. | £232,600,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £194,964,000
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS</strong> [Charity number: [207076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207076)]<br>To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit by conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend,protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.To raise public understanding and awareness,and to provide information on,such matters.To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment | £194,964,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SEVINGTON VICTORIAN SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1178337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178337)]<br>Providing experience of authentic Victorian education for children and adults.Conservation of the heritage of Sevington School buildings for present and future generations to experience and enjoy | £29,828
<strong>CIPPENHAM CENTRAL HALL</strong> [Charity number: [237293](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-237293)]<br>Upkeep and maintenance of hall used for a wide range of community activities. | £2,910
<strong>Kinlochleven Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC027752](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC027752)]<br>To manage community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general following principles of sustainable development, where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs, and by such management relieve poverty in the Community area, and to encourage economic regeneration. To provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community and following principles of sustainable development, where 'sustainable development' means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. To advance community development, including urban or rural regeneration, following principles of sustainable development, where 'sustainable development' means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs, and to encourage and promote training and the provision of educational facilities and courses, skills development and employment training. To advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history. To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, and conservation of the natural environment, the promotion of sustainable development, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the community. | £257,640
<strong>GREAT BARR WAR MEMORIAL HALL</strong> [Charity number: [1164446](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164446)]<br>The charity runs Great Barr War Memorial Hall for the benefit of the community. It is used by clubs for their meetings and is rented out for private functions. | £26,034
<strong>Edderton Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC054963](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054963)]<br>4 The organisation has been formed to benefit the community of Edderton as defined by the Highland Council's definition of Edderton Community Council (“the Community”), with the Purposes listed in clause 5 below (“the Purposes”), to be exercised following the principles of sustainable development (where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs). 5 The organisation’s purposes are: a) The advancement of community development to improve the quality of life for the whole community. b) The provision or assistance in the provision of recreational facilities and activities for residents in the community and visitors thereto. c) The advancement of education.  d) The advancement and/or preservation of heritage that may exist in and around the Community. and e) The advancement of environmental protection and improvement in the Community.  | 
<strong>Crieff Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044348)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit principally the community of the Crieff catchment area ('the Crieff area'), which comprises the postcode  units set out in appendix 1, ('the Community') with the following objects:  The advancement of community development including the advancement of rural regeneration principally within the Community. The advancement of citizenship  The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science  The advancement of environmental protection or improvement  The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of the life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended  But only to the extent that the above purposes are consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development | £177,429
<strong>Donaghadee Community Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI103332](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103332)]<br>Our activities are Organising Events - We organise and co-ordinate a two-week festival (attendances last year totalled 12,000); a Christmas event and also organise one off events such as a Senior Showcase (an exhibition and talks on activities and issues of interest to those aged 50+ eg health, leisure pursuits, education, housing, volunteering); a Cultural Awareness Day with events from Indian, Chinese, African communities. These events bring the community together and improve the town’s economy by attracting visitors and keeping businesses viable. Community Development – Supporting other community groups by advising on grant opportunities and also by raising skill levels. Groups can promote their activities through the Whats On and A-Z sections of our website (www.visitdonaghadee.com). Our annual events provide an opportunity for organisations to participate and attract new members. We also have a range of equipment (pa system, 7 gazebos, a mobile platform/stage) which we lend out. Promoting Donaghadee – through our website (www.visitdonaghadee.com) and also in projects such as the production and sale of hessian bags “Shop Local”. Traders can promote their services through the A-Z section of the website. Improving Our Town – organising the annual floral displays; working with the local Council on schemes such as the £1.7m from the Heritage Lottery Fund, £2.5m for public realm works; installation of free WIFI in the town centre and the preparation of a Town Masterplan. We have worked very closely with Council officials and government departments on these initiatives. We have also met with elected representatives and Ministers on issues such as car parking, roads and potential tourist development; | £61,767
<strong>Friends Of St Cecilias Hall & Russell Collection Of Harpsichords</strong> [Charity number: [SC011220](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011220)]<br>The aims and objects of the Society shall be the advancement of musical education, knowledge and appreciation and in particular: (a) To build up a body of supporters of St. Cecilia's Hall and its collection of keyboard instruments and to raise funds for any purpose connected therewith. (b) To acquire further instruments and so present a more complete picture of musical development. (c) To acquire documentary, bibliographical and illustrative material pertaining to the history of instruments. (d) To acquire minor furnishings suitable for the eighteenth century concert-hall and its musical functions. (e) To support a student or students of the University of Edinburgh in a short term project connected with keyboard instruments (e.g. a vocational course in harpsichord or organ playing abroad). (f) Generally to help in furthering the work of the Hall, its Collection and its concerts in any way which may offer itself. | £20,120
<strong>Cockenzie & Port Seton Legion Scotland Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC046789](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046789)]<br>4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women's Land Army. the Women's Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as 'ex-Service men and women'. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £2,264
<strong>MRS R H HOTBLACK'S MICHELHAM PRIORY ENDOWMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [256176](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-256176)]<br>Provides an expendable endowment fund in support of Michelham Priory, one of the properties owned by the Sussex Archaeological Society. | £8,500
