# Historical conservation and restoration `HR102`

Historical conservation and restoration is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](HR.md) category.

3,502 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.73% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(historical (conservation|preservation)|historic(al)? buildings?|remains of|grade (1|I|2|II|one|two) listed|restor(ations?|ing|e|es)+|antiquit(y|ies)|(maintenance|repairs?|reparation|upkeep) and (maintenance|repairs?|reparation|upkeep)|preservation .*buildings?|conservation of buildings|building preservation|locomotives?|historic railway|victorian|edwardian|georgian|medieval)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,404 | 1.90%
£10k - £100k | 1,093 | 1.59%
£100k - £250k | 348 | 1.65%
£250k - £500k | 161 | 1.58%
£1m - £10m | 158 | 1.82%
£500k - £1m | 130 | 2.04%
Over £10m | 29 | 1.38%
Total | 3,323 | 1.74%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,698 | 1.58%
oscr | 724 | 2.93%
ccni | 80 | 1.11%
Total | 3,502 | 1.73%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £174,925,000
<strong>Royal Society for the Protection of Birds</strong> [Charity number: [SC037654](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037654)]<br>1.  The Objects shall be:       1)  To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit, in particular but not         exclusively by:             a.	conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend.             b.	protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.  And, in furtherance of that primary objective, to raise public understanding and awareness of, and to provide information on, such matters.         2) To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment. | £169,877,000
<strong>ROYAL SOCIETY FOR THE PROTECTION OF BIRDS</strong> [Charity number: [207076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207076)]<br>To promote the conservation of biological diversity and the natural environment for the public benefit by conserving wild birds and other wildlife, and the environment on which they depend,protecting, restoring and re-creating habitats.To raise public understanding and awareness,and to provide information on,such matters.To advance education of the public in conservation of the natural environment | £164,702,000
<strong>THE KYNGE'S COLLEGE OF OUR LADYE OF ETON BESYDE WINDESORE</strong> [Charity number: [1139086](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139086)]<br>Eton College was founded by Henry VI in 1440. Today it is an independent boys' boarding school whose charitable purpose is the advancement of education by the provision, support and conduct of a school and ancillary or incidental educational activities for the benefit of students and/or the wider community; and the preservation and maintenance of the College's historic buildings and Collections. | £91,268,000
<strong>TEARFUND</strong> [Charity number: [265464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265464)]<br>TEARFUND IS A CHRISTIAN RELIEF AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY COMMITTED  TO ERADICATING POVERTY. OUR VISION IS TO SEE PEOPLE FREED FROM  POVERTY LIVING TRANSFORMED LIVES AND REACHING THEIR GOD-GIVEN POTENTIAL. OUR MISSION IS TO FOLLOW JESUS WHERE THE NEED IS GREATEST RESPONDING TO CRISES AND PARTNERING WITH LOCAL CHURCHES TO BRING RESTORATION TO PEOPLE LIVING IN POVERTY. | £85,382,000
<strong>THE WOODLAND TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294344](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294344)]<br>Our Objects are to conserve restore & re-establish trees & in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife & thereby to secure & enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment.Our vision is a UK rich in native woods & trees for people & wildlife. Life's better with trees strengthening the role of  woods & trees in our landscapes & rekindling our love of them. | £82,496,000
<strong>The Woodland Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038885)]<br>The objects of the Trust (the 'Objects') are to conserve restore and re-establish trees and in particular broad leaved trees, plants and all forms of wildlife and thereby to secure and enhance the enjoyment by the public of the natural environment | £82,496,000
<strong>THE CORPORATION OF THE HALL OF ARTS AND SCIENCES</strong> [Charity number: [254543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-254543)]<br>To maintain the Royal Albert Hall, a Grade I listed building of historical and cultural significance and, through its use, to promote the understanding, appreciation and enjoyment of the Arts and Sciences. | £54,363,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £41,387,000
<strong>THE WARDEN AND SCHOLARS OF ST MARY COLLEGE OF WINCHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1139000](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139000)]<br>The advancement of education through the provision of classical, literary, historical, mathematic, scientific, engineering, cultural and general education of the highest class and the provision of financial assistance for such education.The preservation for the public benefit of the buildings and grounds, furniture, pictures and chattels of the College.The advancement of Christian religion. | £39,547,280


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF ST CYRS CHURCH STINCHCOMBE</strong> [Charity number: [1114126](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1114126)]<br>To advance the Christian religion by contribution to maintain, restore, improve and reconstruct the fabric, monuments, fixtures, churchyard, etc of St Cyrs Church Stinchcombe | £4,752
<strong>THE HELP A POOR OR NEEDY CHILD FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1003359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1003359)]<br>To serve the poor and displaced children in Africa and Asia by providing programmes that help save lives, bring hope, restore dignity and raise their physical and educational levels in a meaningful, lasting way.     To protect and preserve the health, both mental and physical of children.  The assistance we provide will be without regard to religious beliefs, gender, or ethnic background. | £1,231
<strong>Lochgoil Community Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC033976](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033976)]<br>The company has been formed to benefit the community of Lochgoil which comprises the postcode units. PA24 8AA, PA24 8AB, PA24 8AD, PA24 8AE, PA24 8AF, PA24 8AG, PA24 8AH, PA24 8AJ, PA24 8AL, PA24 8AN, PA24 8AP, PA24 8AQ, PA24 8AR, PA24 8AS and PA26 8BQ ('the Community') with the following objects: 4.1 to provide, in the interests of social welfare, facilities for recreation and other leisure time activity available to the public at large within the Community - with a view to improving their conditions of life. 4.2 to preserve, restore and improve the environment in the Community through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public open space and other public amenities and other environmental and townscape regeneration projects, and in doing so, to seek wherever appropriate (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners) to carry out works of reclamation, remediation, restoration and other operations to facilitate the use for those purposes of land whose use has been prevented or restricted because of previous use. 4.3 to promote for public benefit the preservation (whether wholly or in part) of buildings and other structures of historic and/or architectural significance located within the Community. 4.4 to relieve the needs of people who are elderly or who are otherwise in need of care within the Community. 4.5 to provide or assist in the provision of housing for people in necessitous circumstances within the Community. 4.6 to advance education and to promote trainnig programmes and opportunities for the benefit of the residents of the Community particularly among young people and the unemployed. 4.7 to advance citizenship and community development through the promotion of trade and industry. For remaining purposes, please contact the charity directly. | £97,666
<strong>LOWDHAM RAILWAY HERITAGE</strong> [Charity number: [1163610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163610)]<br>Lowdham Signal box will be preserved in a way that is accessible to the public, and near to its original location, and in its original context. It will be a hands-on display so visitors can try being a signalman, a job that was almost unchanged from the Victorian era until the 1970s. | £2,213
<strong>BCCF Environmental</strong> [Charity number: [SC038733](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038733)]<br>The company's objects are: (1) To advance environmental protection and improvement and in particular (but without prejudice to that generality) through (a) the reclamation, remediation, restoration or any other operation intended to facilitate the economic, social or environmental use of land, where its use has been prevented or restricted because of a previous activity on the land, which has ceased (b) operations intended to prevent or reduce any potential for pollution that may be caused, or to remedy or mitigate the effects of any pollution that has been caused by a previous activity on the land, which has ceased (c) the provision, maintenance or improvement of a public park or other public amenity in the vicinity of a landfill site andlor (d) the conservation or promotion of biological diversity through (i) the provision, conservation, restoration or enhancement of a natural habitat or (ii) the maintenance or recovery of a species in its natural habitat, on land or in water situated in the vicinity of a landfill site (but subject to appropriate safeguards to ensure that the public benefit so arising clearly outweighs any private benefit thereby conferred on private landowners or others) (2) To protect the natural environment from further damage by (a) discouraging the unnecessary depletion of natural resources andlor (b) promoting education in the fields of waste management andor recycling, all with a view to encouraging the use of more sustainable waste management practices. (3) To promote training, particularly in such skills as may assist the participants in obtaining paid employment. (4) To relieve unemployment in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to find employment. (5) To provide or assist in the provision of recreational facilities available to members of the public at large with a view to improving their conditions of life. | £1,417
<strong>THE THOMAS & ELIZABETH MAYHOOK CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1164725](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164725)]<br>ESTABLISHED FOR THE PRESERVATION, UPKEEP AND MAINTENANCE OF THE HISTORIC ST DAVIDS CEMETERY CARMARTHEN | £2,856
<strong>THE WAR OFFICE LOCOMOTIVE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1136914](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136914)]<br>Principal focus is the conservation and restoration of an ex WW1 light railway narrow gauge steam locomotive built by Hunslet of Leeds. We also hope to help educate about WW1, the light railways used and their influence, the general use of narrow gauge railways, the changes in British engineering influence around the world, traditional engineering skills, and the role heritage has in the UK today. | £6,222
<strong>Gavin's Mill Community Project </strong> [Charity number: [SC047198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047198)]<br>4.1 Advancement of education through providing training and skills to smallholder farmers in Africa and to local youth in the West of Scotland. and through instructing people in Scotland about healthy diets and growing their own foods. 4.2 Prevention or relief of poverty through supporting developmental projects aimed at assisting disadvantaged people in the UK and overseas. 4.3 Prevention or relief of poverty through encouraging fair trade activities which intend to relieve the poverty of producers by ensuring they receive a fair price for their goods.  4.4 Advancement of community development and citizenship. ensuring we have strong, resilient and supportive communities where people take responsibility for their own actions and how they affect others. 4.5 The advancement of heritage: by the preservation of historic buildings and their natural surroundings, and by providing information about them to the public, we value and enjoy our built and natural environment and protect it and enhance it for future generations. 4.6 Advancement of environmental protection and improvement by harnessing the water power available at Gavin?s Mill, along with adopting energy-saving and waste-reducing design features within the refurbished Mill, to provide a well-designed, sustainable place where local people and visitors are able to access the amenities and services, and also learn about our efforts to provide sustainable facilities. | £47,943
<strong>THE LOWER WYE VALLEY BUILDING PRESERVATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1163179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163179)]<br>During the past year The Trust has been very largely engaged in negotiating a lease for our principal area of interest in Tintern Parva; this involving Tintern CC, Welsh Water and The Church in Wales; details are vital before we can put forward a case to potential funders.We have also opened a dialogue with the owner of the derelict church in Chapel Hill. | 
<strong>The Book Of Deer Project (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC030656](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030656)]<br>The organisation’s purpose is 4.1 To benefit the community of Buchan by advancing the knowledge and appreciation of the public in its history and heritage, particularly that of the medieval manuscript known as the “Book of Deer” by •	the advancement of education •	the advancement of community development and •	the advancement of the arts, heritage, and  culture   | £1,323
