# Natural history `HR106`

Natural history is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](HR.md) category.

230 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(natural history)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 107 | 0.14%
£10k - £100k | 66 | 0.10%
£100k - £250k | 19 | 0.09%
£250k - £500k | 16 | 0.16%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 220 | 0.12%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 175 | 0.10%
oscr | 53 | 0.21%
ccni | 2 | 0.03%
Total | 230 | 0.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Grimsthorpe & Drummond Castle Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039364)]<br>To advance education, to advance promote and aid such other purposes as are recognised by English law to be exclusively charitable and in particular but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing:- (i) To preserve for the public benefit the whole or such part or parts of the buildings and their grounds known as Grimsthorpe in the County of Lincolnshire (hereinafter called 'Grimsthorpe') and Drummond Castle in the district of Perth and Kinross (hereinafter called 'Drurnmond Castle') as shall or may hereafter be vested in the Company or in respect of which the Company shall have any interest therein. (ii) To protect and improve the amenities of Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle in pursuance of the objects of the Company. (iii) To preserve for the public benefit as adjuncts to Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle furniture, pictures and other chattels ordinarily kept thereat or which may be given or loaned to the Company and which the Company shall consider to be appropriate to be kept at Grimsthorpe or Drummond Castle. (iv) To facilitate and encourage access to and study and appreciation of Grimsthorpe and its surrounding land together with such furniture, pictures and chattels as aforesaid by the general public as a typical example of an historic Lincolnshire estate representing a family property and collection of chattels and objets d'art assembled over many generations. (v) To facilitate and encourage research into natural history, horticulture, agriculture, forestry and allied sciences provided that the results of , such research be available for dissemination to the public. (vi) To facilitate, encourage and promote the study of art, music, architecture and literature.  (vii) To facilitate and encourage the use and occupation of the whole or part of Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle and the use of such chattels as, aforesaid for the advancement of education and learning. | £8,231,705
<strong>THE ZOOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF EAST ANGLIA LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1150158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150158)]<br>ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION IN ZOOLOGY, ANIMAL WELFARE AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  BY INSPIRING INTEREST BY THE GENERAL PUBLIC IN ZOOLOGY AND STUDY OF ANIMALS BY RUNNING ONE OR MORE ZOOLOGICAL GARDENS OR SCIENTIFIC ESTABLISHMENTS.PROMOTION OF RESEARCH INTO WILDLIFE AND NATURAL HISTORY AND RELATED SCIENTIFIC FIELDS, AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE CONSERVATION OF WILDLIFE, BIODIVERSITY AND NATURAL HABITATS. | £7,299,039
<strong>The Powell-Cotton Trust</strong> [Charity number: [1167318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1167318)]<br>THE PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE OF A MUSEUM IN OR NEAR BIRCHINGTON FOR THE EXHIBITION TO THE PUBLIC OF SPECIMENS OF NATURAL HISTORY AND ETHNOGRAPHY (PARTICULARLY SUCH SPECIMENS COLLECTED BY PERCY HORACE GORDON POWELL-COTTON) AND, IF THE GOVERNORS THINK FIT, OF SPECIMENS OF OTHER SCIENCES AND OF THE FINE AND USEFUL ARTS. | £3,580,538
<strong>The League Against Cruel Sports</strong> [Charity number: [SC045533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045533)]<br>The Charity's objects (the 'Objects') are the advancement of education generally with particular reference to the care and protection of animals, ecology, natural history, conservation and environmental studies. the prevention of all forms of cruelty to animals. the conservation, preservation, protection and restoration for the public benefit of the natural resources, natural beauty and animal and plant life of the world and lands and buildings of beauty, historic interest or of ecological or scientific importance and, as regards lands, for the preservation, as far as is practicable, of their natural aspect, features and animal and plant life.   | £2,943,830
<strong>THE LINNEAN SOCIETY OF LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [220509](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220509)]<br>The Society's Royal Charter 1802 states the purpose as 'The Cultivation of the Science of Natural History in all its branches'.  We have three key charitable activities:1) safeguarding and promoting our heritage collections; 2) advancing scientific knowledge and understanding; 3) engaging the public and educational outreach. Our vision is a world where nature is understood, valued and protected. | £2,442,501
<strong>The Moray Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC017546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017546)]<br>3.1.1 to advance the education of the public in the furtherance of the arts, antiquities, archaeology, geology, botany, history and natural history, especially as connected with the County of Moray (the “Area”) and the collection, preservation and arrangement of objects connected therewith to make them so far as practical available to the public to view or study and in particular and without prejudice to the foregoing generality to promote, conserve, maintain and protect for the benefit of the public, a Museum and so far as practical to maintain the Museum Collection within its existing historic purpose built accommodation in Elgin.   3.1.2 to maintain, safeguard and conserve the amenities and environment of the Area inter alia by: (i) stimulating public interest in, and care for, the beauty, history and character of the Area.  (ii) encouraging the preservation, development and improvement of features of general public amenity or historical interest. and (iii) encouraging high standards of architecture and town planning in the Area. and 3.1.3 to advance community development by working with other charities and community organisations in the Area, thereby promoting individual and group engagement. | £1,664,762
<strong>THE DORSET NATURAL HISTORY AND ARCHAEOLOGICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1062400](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062400)]<br>The advancement of education for the benefit of the public in the areas of archaeology, natural sciences, literature, the fine and decorative arts, antiquities and local history relating to the County of Dorset.The acquisition, preservation, conservation, exhibition and development of collections relating to the areas outlined above. | £1,221,234
<strong>R S E Scotland Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC024636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024636)]<br>To advance the education of the public in Scotland in science engineering and technology and in furtherance thereof:- (a) To research and explore developing areas of learning and human knowledge and to disseminate by whatever means the results of such research, particularly in Scotland. (b) To promote the greater public understanding of all sciences, engineering and technology and their part in increasing the wealth and quality of life of the people of Scotland.  (c) To encourage for the benefit of the people of Scotland collaboration between the academic and business communities in Scotland.  (d) To preserve and conserve the architectural, scientific and cultural heritage of Scotland and to collect, for the purposes of preservation, conservation and exhibition, for the benefit of the people of Scotland, writings, instruments, artefacts, specimens of natural history and any other material which, in the opinion of the Trustees relates to the cultural and scientific heritage of Scotland.  (e) To call upon the broad intellectual resources of the Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh and such other Societies and organisations as appropriate in the promotion of the foregoing purposes. | £1,052,571
<strong>HULL AND EAST YORKSHIRE MEDICAL RESEARCH CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1095652](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095652)]<br>Establish and fund the provision of medical research facilities for enquiry into the causes, natural history, prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illnesses and diseases of all kinds and to disseminate the useful results of such research for the benefit of the general public. | £934,382
<strong>THE AFRICAN NATURAL HISTORY RESEARCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1159955](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159955)]<br>The objectives of the charity are to advance the education of the public in general on the subject of African natural history and to promote research for the public benefit in all aspects of that subject and publish or exhibit the useful results. | £799,311


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Garmouth and Kingston Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC050545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050545)]<br>The organisation's main purpose is to support the wellbeing of people in the communities of Garmouth and Kingston and the surrounding area, by providing facilities and activities that promote community cohesion and development and the wellbeing of individuals.  In particular: -  5.1 The advancement of community development and in furtherance of the above purpose, we will carry out the following activities:  5.1.1 Providing, maintaining and managing the Village Hall, the Garmouth Park and the Community Hub as focal points for village engagement and resilience and as venues that can be used for sporting, recreational, educational, heritage and cultural pursuits and activities in order to improve the wellbeing of residents and visitors to the area.  5.1.2 Supporting local people to identify and articulate their needs and act to address those needs.   5.2 The provision of sporting and recreational facilities, and the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. In furtherance of the above purpose, we will carry out the following activities:   5.2.1 Delivering community based events that bring together members of the community and thereby promote social interaction.  5.2.2 Providing both individuals and groups/clubs with the opportunity to book the organisation's facilities for the purposes of taking part in and/or providing sporting and recreational classes/activities  5.2.3 Maintaining the Garmouth Park and other areas of amenity land in the villages  5.2.4 Helping to maintain the local network of footpaths and to ensure effective signage so that local residents and visitors are encouraged to explore the area and learn about its heritage and natural history  5.3 The advancement of the arts, heritage and culture by providing access to facilities for drama, music and other entertainments and to encourage participation in music, theatre and other creative arts amongst the Community.  5.4 The advancement of education for the community about its environment, culture, heritage and history to include the delivery of exhibitions, presentations, displays, demonstrations and talks in order to increase knowledge about the village and its history and ecology. | £25,320
<strong>WHARFEDALE NATURALISTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [509241](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-509241)]<br>To promote and foster the study of all branches of natural history and add to existing knowledge, both generally and regarding Wharfedale in particular. To promote the conservation, protection and improvement of the physical and natural environment. | £10,860
<strong>THE COTSWOLD WILDLIFE PARK CONSERVATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1153477](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153477)]<br>To promote the conservation, preservation and restoration for the public benefit of the world's animal, bird, fish and plant life and its industrial, urban, natural and marine environmentsof ecological or scientific importance, and its natural rescources;To advance the education of the public in natural history, environmental studies, ecology and conservation. | £265,577
<strong>LOWEWOOD MUSEUM TRUST CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1192966](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192966)]<br>To advance education for public benefit in particular but not exclusively in the archaeology, natural history and social history of the Borough of Broxbourne, Hertfordshire as told through its heritage, landscapes and stories of the people within the Borough  through the provision of a museum and information service and the provision of exhibitions, conferences, workshops and other events | £120,419
<strong>CAMBRIDGE ARTHRITIS RESEARCH ENDEAVOUR (CARE)</strong> [Charity number: [802862](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802862)]<br>Supporting scientific research into rheumatological conditions, taking various forms including laboratory-based investigation of the  basic mechanisms underlying diseases of the musculoskeletal system, clinical research to investigate the features and natural history of these disorders, and to improve their management and therapy, mainly in the context of randomised clinical trials. | £294,923
<strong>HAILSHAM HISTORICAL AND NATURAL HISTORY SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [802501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802501)]<br>Management of our Heritage Centre Museum located in the Town Centre and Custodians of the artifacts, documents, photographs and displays. The Society holds monthly meetings with guest speakers and occasional guided walks in the locality and other related activities. | £3,694
<strong>ALNWICK CIVIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1197235](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197235)]<br>To promote high standards of planning and architecture in or affecting Alnwick and environs; to educate the public in the geography, history, natural history, and architecture in the area; to secure the preservation protection, development, and improvement of features of historic or public interest in the Alnwick area. | £1,164
<strong>Islay Natural History Trust (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC049310](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049310)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to advance education and science by: 4.1 Undertaking, encouraging and promoting the research, education and study of all aspects of natural history on Islay  4.2 Cataloguing, publishing and making available to the public at large any information obtained in respect thereof  4.3 Establishing and operating a nature centre for the display to the general public of all information and material obtained and ingathered in implementation of said purpose 4.4 Provisioning of facilities to all persons, groups of persons, organisations and the like interested in the furtherance of the aims of the Trust   | £10,441
<strong>WHITSTABLE IMPROVEMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1003120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1003120)]<br>To promote for the public benefit the preservation, protection, development and improvement of buildings, land & features of particular beauty or historical architectural or public interest in or around Whitstable. To promote the education of the public in the geography, natural history & architecture and in particular of young people in environmental studies in Whitstable. | £24,928
<strong>THE SELBORNE SOCIETY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [267635](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-267635)]<br>To promote public education and research in natural history and antiquities and to publish the results of that education and research. To preserve and maintain, for the benefit of the public, places of natural beauty, scientific value and antiquarian interest. | £59,712
