# History `HR103`

History is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](/data/ukcat/HR) category.

4,667 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.32% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(historical|history|1[0-8]th century|manuscripts?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,187 | 2.64%
£10k - £100k | 1,403 | 2.16%
£100k - £250k | 370 | 1.91%
£250k - £500k | 180 | 1.98%
£1m - £10m | 140 | 1.76%
£500k - £1m | 103 | 1.79%
Over £10m | 26 | 1.40%
Total | 4,409 | 2.30%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 3,263 | 1.93%
oscr | 1,099 | 4.32%
ccni | 305 | 4.29%
Total | 4,667 | 2.32%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [209603](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209603)]<br>To save lives, promote safety and rescue service efficiency, and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters; to advance the education of the public in matters relating to sea, inland and flood water safety, and in the history and heritage of the Institution; to relieve/assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity. | £219,912,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £219,900,000
<strong>THE ENGLISH HERITAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1140351](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140351)]<br>The English Heritage Trust is responsible for the conservation and enhancement of the National Heritage Collection of more than 400 unique historic sites and monuments.   Through this Collection, and the London Blue Plaques Scheme, English Heritage promotes public knowledge, enjoyment and education of our shared history and heritage. | £115,914,000
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £112,754,000
<strong>THE BRITISH ACADEMY FOR THE PROMOTION OF HISTORICAL PHILOSOPHICAL AND PHILOLOGICAL STUDIES</strong> [Charity number: [233176](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-233176)]<br>To inspire, recognise and support high achievement in the humanities and social sciences throughout the UK and internationally, and to champion their role and value. | £54,994,600
<strong>MUSEUM OF LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1139250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139250)]<br>Museum of London tells the story of one of the world's greatest cities and its people. As the single most important source of knowledge on the capital, the Museum is, uniquely, a national, regional and local organisation. With over a million items in its collection, it is the largest social history Museum in the world. | £49,353,000
<strong>THE WARDEN AND SCHOLARS OF ST MARY COLLEGE OF WINCHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1139000](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139000)]<br>The advancement of education through the provision of classical, literary, historical, mathematic, scientific, engineering, cultural and general education of the highest class and the provision of financial assistance for such education.The preservation for the public benefit of the buildings and grounds, furniture, pictures and chattels of the College.The advancement of Christian religion. | £36,866,518
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of National Museums Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011130)]<br>Section2 (1) of the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1985 states:  So far as practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall (a) care for, preserve and add to the objects in their collections, (b) secure that the objects are exhibited to and interpreted for the public, (c) secure that the objects are available to persons seeking to inspect them in connection with study or research, (d) generally promote the public's awareness, appreciation and understanding of matters agricultural, archaeological, architectural, artistic, cultural, environmental, historical, industrial, military, scientific and social both by means of the Board's collections and by such other means. including collaboration with other institutions, as they consider appropriate, and (e) provide education, instruction and advice and carry out research. | £35,592,000
<strong>HUMAN APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1154288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154288)]<br>Human Appeal changed its legal structure from a Trust to a Charitable Company (No:1154288). The historical information is available on Charity Commission under (previous Charity Number: 1005733) We aim to provide a holistic approach to humanitarian relief and development:1. Emergency & relief programmes2. Sustainable development3. Orphans programmes4. Social programmes. | £35,518,275
<strong>NATIONAL MUSEUM OF WALES</strong> [Charity number: [525774](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-525774)]<br>We operate 7 free-entry museums across Wales, plus the National Collections Centre, to further our core objective  of 'the advancement of the education of the public'  in the fields of science, art, industry, history and culture. | £34,364,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Killin Heritage Association Also K/A Killin Heritage Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC018763](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018763)]<br>Aims and Objectives:- (i) To undertake to preserve the history of Killin and District, to monitor changes in the enviroment of Killin and District and to protest or support any action which may be deemed to harm or enhance the historic or ecological environment. To undertake to make available to the general public all findings, artifacts and general information as may be deemed practical and suitable by the Executive Committee.  To undertake to study, collate and, where necessary, conserve the history and the environment in and around Killin and District for the benefit of Killin and District. (iv) To hold meetings, lectures, film shows, exhibitions and other similar activities on subjects of local historical and environmental interest to which members of the general public will be freely admitted. (v) To act in such a manner as may be deemed to be to the benefit of the Association and the above mentioned aims. | £20
<strong>Barrmill and District Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC001557](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001557)]<br>4 The Company has been formed to benefit the community of Barrmill and District as defined by the postcode units KA151EU, KA151HA, KA151HH, KA15 IH], KA15 IHN, KA15 IHP, KA15 IHR KA15 IHS, KA15 IHT, KA151HW, KA151HX, KA15 1HZ, KA151]Y, KA151JZ, KA151LB, KA151LF, KA15 1LG, KA15 1LH, KA151LJ, KA15 1LQ (the Community), with the Purposes listed in the sub-clauses hereto ('the Purposes'), to be exercised following the principles of sustainable development (where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs), namely: 4.1 To manage community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general. 4.2 To provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/ or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community. 4.3 To advance community development within the Community. 4.4 To advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history. 4.5 To advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community. | £45,373
<strong>S & C CHURCH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1148665](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148665)]<br>1. To preserve for the benefit of the public, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage in the United Kingdom2. To advance the education of the public in the repair, renewal and management of heritage and other assets within the built environment, and | £5,000
<strong>FRIENDS OF DARWEN CEMETERY</strong> [Charity number: [1142815](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142815)]<br>The Friends of Darwen Cemetery aim to preserve and improve Darwen Cemetery and promote its historical, environmental and cultural significance. They also seek to encourage community participation in their work especially by the youth of the town. | £3,106
<strong>EGBA UNITED SOCIETY MANCHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [1181701](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181701)]<br>To preserve and showcase cultural values, history and traditions of Egba people from Southwest,Nigeria. To foster friendship and cooperation amongst its member and, with the wider community as means of achieving better understanding and community integration. Our meeting place is 2 Empire street, Cheetham Hill, M3 1JA. Manchester. EVERY SECOND SUNDAY OF EVERY MONTH. | £6,766
<strong>Maggies Hoosie Preservation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC019975](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC019975)]<br>To promote and encourage, either on its own or' in conjunction with others, the maintenance and improvements: of the amenity of the geographical area of Banff and Buchan Region ,and the protection and preservation of the Region's landscape and historical and architectural heritage by any means and, in particular, by the acquisition of such lands and 'Buildings of historical,archtectural or constructional interest'as 'the '·Council or Management for the time being of the Trust may select for the purpose of restoration and sale or lease subject to such legally valid restrictions as will ensure preservation of such lands and buildings. | £2
<strong>BASILDON BOROUGH HERITAGE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1176037](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176037)]<br>To advance the education of the public, in the history and heritage of Basildon Borough through the collection, preservation of records, material and artefacts of historical significance. By making available through display and talks at the societies location and around the borough - 'Green Centre', Wat Tyler Country Park, Pitsea Hall Lane, Pitsea, Basildon, Essex SS16 4UH | £1,198
<strong>FOREST OF DEAN BUILDINGS PRESERVATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1147757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147757)]<br>to preserve for the benefit of the people of the Forest of Dean District and of the Nation, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist in and around the Forest of Dean District in its land and buildings (including any structure or erection, and any part of a building as so defined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest | £6,328
<strong>WESTERN FRONT ASSOCIATION EAST KENT BRANCH</strong> [Charity number: [1093915](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093915)]<br>Military history - First World War - Education and training for the general public. | 
<strong>Sion Mills Buildings Preservation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103552)]<br>SMBPT has promoted and delivered a number of projects in pursuance of the aims set out above including: • completed a Conservation Plan for the Mill and Sion Mills Conservation Area in 2003 funded by the Heritage Lottery Fund and the Architectural Heritage Fund; • completed a £25,000 Railway Recreation Area project in 2004; • completed the restoration of the Mill Chimney at a cost of £163,000 in 2006; • developed a new company website aimed at increasing awareness worldwide of the historical and architectural importance of Sion Mills in March 2007; and • completed a £1.3 million project to build workspace units in the old maintenance block of Herdmans Mill (immediately underneath the Mill Chimney) March 2009. • Undertook a £100,000 Environmental Improvements scheme in the Conservation Area in 2009. • Published formal and informal history books, films and pamphlets; held exhibitions of old photographs; given lectures and talks and had our website formally listed in the National Archives. • Completed, in association with Hearth, a £1.2 million project to restore Sion Stables and establish the building as a heritage centre. Museum and tearooms. The building opened to the public in Sept 2014. • Appointed a Stables Project Co-ordinator August 2014 and Heritage Education Officer in April 2015. • Training volunteers and tour guides. Hosting visitors 800-1000 per week. • The Trust will actively seek to set up partnerships which will strengthen the heritage profile of Sion Mills Conservation Area. | £40,283
