# Monuments; statues and memorials `HR104`

Monuments; statues and memorials is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](HR.md) category.

590 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.29% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((war|permanent) memorial|memorial to|memorial (fountain|garden|clock)s?|statues?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 289 | 0.41%
£10k - £100k | 235 | 0.34%
£100k - £250k | 21 | 0.10%
£250k - £500k | 10 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 6 | 0.09%
£1m - £10m | 6 | 0.07%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 570 | 0.30%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 525 | 0.31%
oscr | 52 | 0.21%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 590 | 0.29%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ENGLISH HERITAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1140351](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140351)]<br>The English Heritage Trust is responsible for the conservation and enhancement of the National Heritage Collection of more than 400 unique historic sites and monuments.   Through this Collection, and the London Blue Plaques Scheme, English Heritage promotes public knowledge, enjoyment and education of our shared history and heritage. | £141,415,000
<strong>The Glasgow Academicals War Memorial Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC015638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015638)]<br>To carry on The Glasgow Academy as a School for boys and girls and to promote by means of Exhibitions, Scholarships and Bursaries (whether tenable at the Glasgow Academy or elsewhere) or otherwise, systematic education, instruction and study in various branches of knowledge, including clas¬sical, commercial, linguistic, mathematical, industrial, literary, scientific and other cognate subjects | £23,959,841
<strong>The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC038109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038109)]<br>(a) the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the War Memorial known as the RAF Memorial situated at the Victoria Embankment, London. and b) The relief and assistance by all available means of all or any of thc following classes of beneficiaries who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise, namely:- all persons of all ranks who are or have or shall have been at any time or shall be at any time members of the Royal Air Force, the Royal I Auxiliary Air Force, the Royal Air Force Reserves, the Women's I Royal Air Force or the Air Force or Auxiliary Air Force of any present  or former colony dominion or dependent territory of Great Britain or members of any former organisation the place of which has I substantially been taken by the said organisations or any of them, or I members of any future organisations which hereafter shall substantially take the place of the said organisations or any of them. and  (ii) all persons who shall at any time have been or be widows, widowers, children or other dependants of any of the persons above referred to. | £21,649,000
<strong>Kelvinside Academy War Memorial Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC003962](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003962)]<br>The objects for which the Trust is established are to carry on The Kelvinside Academy ('the School') as a co-educational school and to the generally advance and promote the education of the pupils attending the School and promote education and for that purpose to manage the School and its buildings and educational institutions of all kinds and also including without prejudice to the foregoing generality libraries, laboratories, halls , dining and refreshment rooms, gymnasia, swimming pools, sports grounds, playgrounds, pavilions , theatres and other accommodation and facilities which may be necessary for the use of teachers, students, pupils and others attending the School or having the benefit of the use of the facilities above defined. In the event of the School ceasing exist or its objects ceasing to be those of an establishment for the educational advancement of pupils then such objects will be directed to such other establishment for the educational advancement of pupils as the Governors shall decide not normally required to be provided by the Local Education Authority or other statutory body. | £9,152,695
<strong>The Florence Nightingale Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC044341](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044341)]<br>The Foundation is established as a living memorial to Florence Nightingale and the objects of the Foundation are to advance education, relieve sickness and protect and preserve public health by promoting the training of nurses, midwives and health visitors in nursing and in such other associated fields of study as the Executive Committee of the Foundation shall from time to time decide. | £4,947,106
<strong>LINCOLNSHIRE BOMBER COMMAND MEMORIAL</strong> [Charity number: [1144182](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144182)]<br>To foster good citizenship and advance education for the benefit of the public at large by the provision and maintenance of a memorial, visitor centre, museum and archive: to hold collections for the benefit of the public to commemorate those who served, supported or suffered in air bombing campaigns since the formation of the Royal Air Force. | £1,870,694
<strong>CITY OF LONDON SCHOOL WAR MEMORIAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [325131](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-325131)]<br>Grants for educational and sporting puposes to the City of London School, its pupils and associated persons, Bursaries for less privileged pupils and the support of the above persons and former pupils and associates of the City of London School who are distressed or in poverty | £1,470,036
<strong>Yorkshire Air Museum & Allied Air Forces Memorial</strong> [Charity number: [516766](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-516766)]<br>THE YORKSHIRE AIR MUSEUM & ALLIED AIR FORCES MEMORIAL WAS FORMED IN 1985 ON THE FORMER W.W.2 BOMBER COMMAND STATION, R.A.F ELVINGTON, WITH THE MAIN FOCUS OF PROMOTING THE HISTORY OF AVIATION AND TO PROVIDE A LASTING MEMORIAL TO ALL ALLIED AIR FORCES. THE MUSEUM IS HOME TO OVER 47 COMPLETE AIR FRAMES ON A 20 ACRE PARKLAND SITE WITH OVER 15 PERMANENT EXHIBITIONS. | £1,430,016
<strong>THE MERCHANT SEAMEN'S WAR MEMORIAL SOCIETY (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [207500](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207500)]<br>To support seafarers in need with provision of sheltered housing, support, holidays and financial aid. | £1,043,483
<strong>BRANTWOOD (JOHN RUSKIN MEMORIAL TRUST)</strong> [Charity number: [504743](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-504743)]<br>To administer Brantwood as a permanent memorial to John Ruskin and as a museum, to which members of the public shall have access, containing collections of drawings, books and objects of interest connected with John Ruskin; and as a place of study and recreation for students, teachers and professors and such other members of the public as may from time to time be approved bythe Management Trustees | £846,743


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ANDREW FRASER MEMORIAL CLOCK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1091762](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091762)]<br>The periodic cleaning redecoration regilding and preservation in good and sound order or the replacement or repair of the Andrew Fraser Memorial Clock, Station Road, Colwyn Bay for the benefit of the inhabitiants of Colwyn Bay and the surrounding area. | £5,211
<strong>Dromara Local History Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI102673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102673)]<br>We hold monthly meeting where we invite people who have stories of a historical nature to share. We are still researching for another publication. We hold events where we raise mony for different organisations. Last year we held a quiz evening where the proceeds went to the Ulster Avation Society towards their Spitfire Fund.We also held an evening where the Dromara Destroyers told their story and we gave them a donation toward their Tribute Fund. Just recently we gave a donation to the Ballynahinch War Memorial Restoration Fund where a lot of Dromara folk are mentioned. We also hold an annual outing where we visit places of historical interest. We aim to bring all aspects of local history to the people of the area. We have written two books recording the history of the area. The first book sold out in two weeks and the second one published a year later sold out just as quickly. Through our website we received requests from all over the world for copies. The books included interviews with older folk in the area and their stories would have been lost had this not have been done as most of them are no longer with us. We still have a lot of history to source and we are working on this at present and hope to publish another book or journal in the near future. | £1,777
<strong>KING GEORGE`S FIELD FARLEY HILL</strong> [Charity number: [1083641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083641)]<br>A RECREATION AND PLAYING FIELD, TO BE PRESERVED IN  PERPETUITY AS A MEMORIAL TO KING GEORGE V, UNDER THE PROVISIONS OF THE KING GEORGE'S FIELDS FOUNDATION. | 
<strong>THE OLD WYGGESTONIAN 2010 CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1143064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143064)]<br>The advancement of education and the relief of financial hardship for the benefit of the public, in particular but not exclusively students of the College, by provision of financial assistance,equipment,items,courses and travel scholarships. The provision and maintenance of the war memorial at the college. Other such charitable purposes deemed charitable. | £2,663
<strong>The Somme Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI105286](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105286)]<br>The Somme Association was formed to educate the public and commemorate, on a cross community basis, the role played by Irishmen and women in the First World War. It does this through 4 main programme areas: • The Somme Museum is the main channel through which the Association seeks to achieve its aims in N.I. and across the wider island. The Museum is an educational and tourist facility which examines and commemorates Ireland’s contribution to World War One through the actions of the 10th and 16th (Irish) Divisions and the 36th (Ulster) Division. The Museum has various displays and exhibitions and operates organised guided tours. The Museum has increasingly focused on the community relations potential of our shared history as a vehicle to further cross-community understanding and reconciliation. The Museum includes a shop selling books and memorabilia, and a cafe, which is available to the casual visitor and organisations for planned events. • Education & Outreach is essential to the Somme Association. We deliver numerous outreach sessions to all ages and continue to strive to enable participation of groups with special needs. There is a growing demand for this facility and this increases the profile of our work. • The Somme Association has a leading role in a number of commemoration events in France and Belgium. The main event takes place each year on the 1st July at the Ulster Memorial Tower in Thiepval in France, N.I.’s principal War Memorial to those who sacrificed their lives in the First World War. • The Ulster Tower, in France, attracts visitors to view the Memorial Room on the ground floor. Adjacent to the Tower is a visitors' centre with a cafe and shop containing a small display area, containing First World War artefacts recovered from the surrounding area, as well as an audio-visual section which shows films from the period. Somme Association staff in the Ulster Tower provide organised tours of Thiepval Wood from Mar to Nov each year. | £216,613
<strong>IMOS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1146047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146047)]<br>The IMOS Foundation has many projects: a mural painting trail, ongoing European themed exhibitions and events, a Romney Marsh Flag and a Great Tapestry of Romney Marsh. We are developing a Sculpture Park and Memorial Garden at Hope All Saints,  Romney Marsh and would like to develop a Heritage Centre.  We continue to host Artists and Writers in Residence. | £23,875
<strong>INSTITUTE AND WAR MEMORIAL</strong> [Charity number: [702845](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-702845)]<br>our aim is to serve the community, young people, older people, school,  education teach people to comunicate,  and social events | £2,599
<strong>BRAISHFIELD WAR MEMORIAL</strong> [Charity number: [1064699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064699)]<br>War Memorial | £40
<strong>LONG JOHN SILVER STATUE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1110338](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110338)]<br>OUR GOAL IS TO INAUGURATE A PHYSICAL TREASURE ISLAND TRAIL OF INSTALLATIONS AROUND BRISTOL. LONG TERM A STATUE OF LJS. WE CONTINUE TO BE EDUCATIONAL & INCLUSIVE WITH TALKS & TRAILS TO YOUNG & OLD.WE HAVE ALSO CONTINUED TO PLAY A FULL ROLE IN TRYING TO MAKE THE LIFE AND WORKS OF ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON A EUROPEAN CULTURAL ROUTE, INCLUDING BRISTOL.THE NETWORK WILL INCLUDE BELGIUM IN 2015. | £1,392
<strong>The Rory Gallagher Statue Project Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI109331](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-109331)]<br>None | 
