# Archaeology `HR101`

Archaeology is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](/data/ukcat/HR) category.

491 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.24% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(archaeolog(ists?|y|ical)|paleontolog(ists?|y|ical))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 276 | 0.33%
£10k - £100k | 99 | 0.15%
£100k - £250k | 40 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 11 | 0.12%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.28%
£1m - £10m | 18 | 0.23%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.54%
Total | 470 | 0.25%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 372 | 0.22%
oscr | 103 | 0.41%
ccni | 16 | 0.22%
Total | 491 | 0.24%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of National Museums Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011130)]<br>Section2 (1) of the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1985 states:  So far as practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall (a) care for, preserve and add to the objects in their collections, (b) secure that the objects are exhibited to and interpreted for the public, (c) secure that the objects are available to persons seeking to inspect them in connection with study or research, (d) generally promote the public's awareness, appreciation and understanding of matters agricultural, archaeological, architectural, artistic, cultural, environmental, historical, industrial, military, scientific and social both by means of the Board's collections and by such other means. including collaboration with other institutions, as they consider appropriate, and (e) provide education, instruction and advice and carry out research. | £35,592,000
<strong>COTSWOLD ARCHAEOLOGY LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1001653](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001653)]<br>We achieve our Object by creating knowledge which accrues from archaeological and heritage investigations and other research. Through our research we make the past relevant, interesting and enjoyable to a broad spectrum of beneficiaries. Developing knowledge of the past amongst stakeholders increases community cohesion and identity, and furthers an overall appreciation of the world we live in | £25,231,191
<strong>MUSEUM OF LONDON ARCHAEOLOGY</strong> [Charity number: [1143574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143574)]<br>The object of the Charity are for the benefit of the public in the advancement of education in the subjects of archaeology and the historic environment.Our aim is to stimulate enquiry and promote active discovery through partnership and participation, widening access to and appreciation of the value of heritage. | £24,607,969
<strong>OXFORD ARCHAEOLOGY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [285627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-285627)]<br>Archaeological research, archaeological excavations and analysis and  publication, heritage and conservation advice. | £24,431,991
<strong>WESSEX ARCHAEOLOGY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287786](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287786)]<br>The advancement of education; and the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage and science. | £22,690,461
<strong>Wessex Archaeology Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC042630](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042630)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is established (the “Objects”) are to promote: 4.1. the advancement of education. and 4.2. the advancement of the arts, culture, heritage or science. | £22,690,461
<strong>MOLA NORTHAMPTON</strong> [Charity number: [1155198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155198)]<br>The objects of the Charity are to provide public benefit through educational archaeology and historic environment activities. | £12,837,106
<strong>CHURCHES CONSERVATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [258612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-258612)]<br>The CCT is registered as a charity (number 258612) . It's governing document is the Mission and Pastoral Measure 2011.  It's main object is the preservation, in the interests of the nation and of the Church of England, of redundant churches and parts of churches of historic and archaeological interest or architectural quality vested in the Trust, together with their contents. | £11,744,845
<strong>YORK ARCHAEOLOGICAL TRUST FOR EXCAVATION AND RESEARCH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [509060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-509060)]<br>The Trust advances the education of the public in archaeology, history and related disciplines associated with the City of York and elsewhere and promotes the preservation and display of collections of archaeological material and carries out research and disseminates the results.This is achieved by running visitor attractions and providing archaeological services. | £10,964,746
<strong>York Archaeological Trust for Excavation and Research Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC042846](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042846)]<br>The objects for which the Trust is established are to advance the education of the public in archaeology, history and related disciplines associated with the City of York and elsewhere and promote the preservation and display of collections of archaeological material and carry out research and disseminate the results. | £10,964,746


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NAUTICAL MUSEUMS TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [284687](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284687)]<br>The object of the Trust is to advance the education of the public in maritime and coastal archaeology, history, geology and environment by the provision of a museum or museums as is considered necessary. | £104,436
<strong>THE CRESWELL HERITAGE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [701683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701683)]<br>Promoting for the benefit of the public, the conservation and preservation of the geology, archaeology, ecology and landscape in the Creswell Crags Heritage Area and the surroundings; of taking steps to secure the removal of inappropriate development from the Creswell gorge and at other sites the Trust is seeking to enhance and preserve; to advancing public education and promote research. | £1,589,836
<strong>OASIS AND SAHARA INTERNATIONAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1119340](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119340)]<br>Raising funds for the excavation and preservation of archaeological sites in and around the oases of the Western Desert, for educational purposes and for the relief of hardship in this area. | £61
<strong>Cramond Heritage Trust, 2017</strong> [Charity number: [SC047126](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047126)]<br>4.1 To encourage the preservation and improvement of the features of natural and historic interest in the area of Edinburgh defined as the area bounded as follows: by the foreshore of the Forth to the River Almond: the River Almond to the Grotto Bridge: the Grotto Bridge in a straight line to Lennie Hill: Lennie Hill in a straight line to the intersection of the burn and Maybury Road: the west side of Maybury Road to Queensferry Road: the north side of Queensferry Road to Quality Street: the west side of Quality Street and Cramond Road South to Laurlston Farm Road: the north side of Lauriston Farm Road to Silverknowes Road: the west side of Silverknowes Road north to the foreshore (hereafter referred to as 'the Trust area') and in the furtherance of these objectives: 4.1.1 To carry out, or assist in carrying out, work necessary for the conservation and interpretation of such features of natural or historic interest in the Trust area 4.1.2 To carry out, or assist in carrying out, archaeological exploration or excavation work in the Trust area, 4.1.3 To hold meetings, exhibitions, lectures and conferences and to issue publications and  4.1.4 To promote any other activities as will properly attain the objects of the Trust  | £652
<strong>LOWER TEST VALLEY ARCHAEOLOGICAL STUDY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [271293](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271293)]<br>25 Open meetings each year Distribution of a regular newsletter to members Twice weekly workshops for active research  Occasional exhibitions and full day courses Guided walks in and around Romsey Assistance to school and educational projects Talks and slide shows to other groups Liaison and co-operation with local organisations Publication of LTVAS books and pamphlets. | £4,445
<strong>The Beyond the Earth Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC048652](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048652)]<br>a) To foster education through unique public engagement and learning opportunities within SETI and long-term communication strategies, astrobiology, temporal social sciences, planetary stewardship, the arts and humanities while also advancing inclusive, cross-cultural discourse on developing best practices for speaking in a single yet heterogeneous voice for Earth. These activities will consist of public lectures/ conference proceedings, mentoring programmes and publications alongside inter-organisation collaborative projects and participatory workshops.  b) To advance cross-cultural collaboration within the arts and social sciences by establishing micro-etched archives that can facilitate 'interpretation preservation' over intervals of cosmic time from orbit. 'Companion Guide to Earth' libraries that will contain essential, non-partial records which will subsequently benefit archaeological observations performed by our distant descendants. Sub-activities of this purpose include.  o To encourage public participation and promote contribution of heritage content(s) for inclusion within these orbital libraries from the aggregate of ethnic/ indigenous communities on Earth.  o To preserve foundational portions of knowledge from a myriad of disciplines and conserve intricate, telluric records while also conveying the interdependence of our planet with its' inhabiting biota.  o To intelligibly communicate core anthropogenic concepts and provide a rudimentary introduction to present social conventions. regardless of the receivers' state of cultural evolution, morphology, cognition or ethnological traditions.  o To further develop an iconic, instrumental pidgin lexicon that mitigates partiality while denoting how to further interpret archival resources. This primer encyclopedia and related implicit cues will be compiled through peer-led, interdisciplinary academic investigation and [online] public consultations.  o To coordinate the recovery of elaborate terrestrial [and celestial] archives while also providing intelligible keys for interpreting these heritage repositories.  o To responsibly deter future human interference with long-duration, hazardous waste storage depositories i.e. nuclear, chemical etc.  | £180
<strong>Hidden Gardens Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC036881](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036881)]<br>To provide in the interests of social welfare facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation for the benefit of the general public.  To preserve, restore and improve the environment through the provision, maintenance and/or improvement of public parks and gardens, allotments, public green spaces and other public amenities.  To advance education (1) through promotion of the arts and (2) in particular (but without limitation) with regard to the design of public open space and public amenities, the wildlife and natural environment, traditional craft skills, the social, archaeological and scenic heritage of local areas, recycling and the conservation of the world's resources, through technical innovation, power reduction and best practice in environmental application.  To promote training, and with particular reference to skills which will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment.  To help young people to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities, such that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society.  To relieve the needs of people who suffer from mental and/or physical disability, illness or impairment or have particular needs by reason of old age or current or past drug, solvent and/or alcohol abuse, and their carers and families.  To encourage, stimulate and support volunteering.  To work towards the elimination of discrimination (whether on the grounds of race, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation or otherwise), to promote and support equality of opportunity for all irrespective of race, religion, disability, gender or sexual orientation and to promote harmony between peoples of different ethnic, racial, social, religious and other groups within the framework of a multi-racial and inclusive society.  To promote, establish, operate and/or support other projects and initiatives of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community. | £297,623
<strong>THE MERTHYR TYDFIL AND DISTRICT NATURALISTS' SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1106927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1106927)]<br>Society Objectives:-1. To promote animals and plants of the countryside, objects of geological, historical and archaeological interest.2. To promote the formation of Nature Reserves and to assist in their supervision.3. To foster interest in Nature Conservation through public meetings, film shows, exhibitions, publication of books, our Annual Newsletter, leaflets and general communication. | £18,622
<strong>Bexhill Museum</strong> [Charity number: [1102638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102638)]<br>The object of the charity is to provide a museum in order to promote, maintain, improve and advance the education of the public for their benefit particularly by the presentation of exhibitions, lectures and other means of study relating to local history, natural history, archaeology, history of costume, technology, engineering, the arts, ethnography, geology and social history. | £136,751
<strong>Struan Community Development Group (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC049381](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049381)]<br>The organisation's main purpose is to advance citizenship and community development through the initiation and support of projects which result in the development of sustainable buildings, infrastructure and facilities within the Struan area (as defined in Section 11 -Membership) for the benefit of all members of the local community.   In addition to this we aim to contribute to the advancement of the arts, culture and in particular the heritage of area by developing and maintaining facilities, including those which provide access to and interpretation of the archaeological heritage of the area, so that these can be enjoyed by all members of the public.  | £24,190
