# Museum `HR105`

Museum is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Heritage](HR.md) category.

2,333 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(museums?|galler(y|ies))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 853 | 1.15%
£10k - £100k | 772 | 1.12%
£100k - £250k | 232 | 1.10%
£250k - £500k | 138 | 1.37%
£500k - £1m | 82 | 1.30%
£1m - £10m | 149 | 1.74%
Over £10m | 27 | 1.30%
Total | 2,253 | 1.18%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,963 | 1.15%
oscr | 296 | 1.19%
ccni | 74 | 1.03%
Total | 2,333 | 1.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CANAL & RIVER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1146792](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146792)]<br>Canal & River Trust is the charitable operator and guardian of 2,000 miles of historic waterways across England and Wales. In addition to caring for the waterways so that they are available for the public to enjoy, the Trust maintains the nations' third largest collection of listed heritage structures, as well as museums, archives, and hundreds of important wildlife sites. | £225,100,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>THE ROYAL COLLECTION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1016972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016972)]<br>To ensure the Royal Collection is subject to proper custodial control and is conserved to the highest possible standards.To ensure the Royal Collection can be seen by as many people as possible.To broaden access through the publication of books and exhibition catalogues and development of the on-line gallery.To make appropriate acquisitions when resources become available. | £84,343,000
<strong>MUSEUM OF LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1139250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139250)]<br>Museum of London tells the story of one of the world's greatest cities and its people. As the single most important source of knowledge on the capital, the Museum is, uniquely, a national, regional and local organisation. With over a million items in its collection, it is the largest social history Museum in the world. | £61,132,000
<strong>NATIONAL MUSEUM OF WALES</strong> [Charity number: [525774](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-525774)]<br>We operate 7 free-entry museums across Wales, plus the National Collections Centre, to further our core objective  of 'the advancement of the education of the public'  in the fields of science, art, industry, history and culture. | £40,993,000
<strong>South Lanarkshire Leisure and Culture</strong> [Charity number: [SC032549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032549)]<br>The SCIO's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 To advance public participation in sport. 4.3 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.4 To advance education. 4.5 To advance health. 4.6 To advance citizenship and/or community development (which may include the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 4.7 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes. through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by South Lanarkshire Council), which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of South Lanarkshire) including (i) the operation, management and development of galleries, museums and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider pa1ticipation in healthy exercise). (v) the development and delivery of sports activities and events directed towards wider participation in sport. (vi) the development and de livery of community learning and adult learning initiatives. and (vii) the delivery of services focused on social renewal and the needs of young people.  | £39,947,000
<strong>Board Of Trustees For National Galleries Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC003728](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003728)]<br>The purpose of managing the National Galleries of Scotland and for such other purposes connected with the promotion of the Fine Arts in Scotland as may be prescribed, | £37,258,000
<strong>Board Of Trustees Of National Museums Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011130](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011130)]<br>Section2 (1) of the National Heritage (Scotland) Act 1985 states:  So far as practicable and subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board shall (a) care for, preserve and add to the objects in their collections, (b) secure that the objects are exhibited to and interpreted for the public, (c) secure that the objects are available to persons seeking to inspect them in connection with study or research, (d) generally promote the public's awareness, appreciation and understanding of matters agricultural, archaeological, architectural, artistic, cultural, environmental, historical, industrial, military, scientific and social both by means of the Board's collections and by such other means. including collaboration with other institutions, as they consider appropriate, and (e) provide education, instruction and advice and carry out research. | £37,026,000
<strong>THE CLORE DUFFIELD FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1084412](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084412)]<br>The Clore Duffield Foundation is a grant making organisation which concentrates its support on education, the arts, museum and gallery education, cultural leadership training, health and social care and enhancing Jewish life whilst placing a particular emphasis on supporting children, young people and society's more vulnerable individuals. | £31,839,987
<strong>THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF THE ROYAL NAVY</strong> [Charity number: [1126283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126283)]<br>To become the world's leading naval museum underpinned by the spirit of enterprise and adventure which has always been the hallmark of the Royal Navy. To make accessible to all the story of the Royal Navy and its people from earliest times to the present by collecting, preserving and interpreting artefacts, photographs, documents, manuscripts and oral history testimony. | £29,633,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHAPTER (CARDIFF) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [500813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500813)]<br>Chapter operates an arts centre in Cardiff which has two cinemas, two theatre spaces and a gallery. It specialises in contemporary culture including cinema, visual arts, digital arts and performing arts. It also offers a programme of classes and activities for the public, workspaces for small cultural businesses and meeting rooms for the community. | £3,200,179
<strong>Friends of Glasgow Museums SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052547](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052547)]<br>Friends of Glasgow Museums SCIO is established exclusively for charitable purposes and primarily for the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science through (amongst other things):- (a) Cultivating interest in the activities - artistic, historical, educational and scientific - promoted by the Art Galleries and Museums in Glasgow.   (b) Establishing funds with a view to fostering interest in the activities of the organisation and in the provision or the making of a grant or grants or a contribution or contributions towards the funding of the provision of an addition or additions to the collections of the Art Galleries and Museums in Glasgow or for the purposes of conservation of any artefact or artefacts held within the said collections.  (c) Seeking contributions for the purposes of the organisation by means of public or other appeals or by any other appropriate means.  (d) Funding purchases of an addition or additions to the collections of the Art Galleries and Museums in Glasgow or make a grant or grants, or contribution or contributions towards the purchase of such addition or additions, or for the purposes of conservation of any artefact or artefacts held within the said collections, and that in such manner and at such time or times as may be resolved by the Trustees.   (e) Making grants with a view to the enhancement of the enjoyment of visitors to the Art Galleries and Museums in Glasgow or the collections thereof in such manner and at such time or times as may be resolved by the Trustees.  (f)  No grant or contribution shall be made for or towards the day-to-day running costs or the ordinary maintenance or refurbishment of the Art Galleries and Museums in Glasgow or any part or parts thereof.  A grant or contribution may be made for or towards such extraordinary maintenance or refurbishment as the Board may from time to time or at any time consider appropriate. and   (g) to promote such similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions in such proportions and manner as the Trustees shall think fit.  The expressions 'charitable purpose' or 'charitable object' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the Scottish Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts and a 'charitable institution' shall mean a charity in terms of the Scottish Charities Act which is also regarded as a charity in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts, or a charity under the law of any other jurisdiction which is also regarded as a charity in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts, provided that nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the organisation other than in furtherance of a charitable purpose. | 
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF LLANCAIACH FAWR</strong> [Charity number: [1010180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010180)]<br>To provide items and funds for projects which add to the visitor experience at Llancaiach Fawr Manor House - a living history museum set in 1645 during the English Civil War. | £2,797
<strong>THE SHAKESPEARE BIRTHPLACE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [209302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209302)]<br>To promote in every part of the world the appreciation and study of the plays and works of William Shakespeare.To maintain and preserve the Shakespeare birthplace properties for the benefit of the nation.To provide and maintain a museum and a library of books, manuscripts, records of historical interest and objects of antiquity with reference to Shakespeare, his life works and times. | £8,733,000
<strong>ST AGNES MUSEUM TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1095051](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095051)]<br>To interpret the landscape, history and culture of the Parish of St Agnes and serve as a collective memory of its communities.  To provide, for the advancement of public education, a museum and interpretive centre relating to the Parish, and to encourage the conservation and preservation of historic sites and buildings within the Parish. | £20,513
<strong>BRITISH INSTITUTE IN EASTERN AFRICA</strong> [Charity number: [1061622](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1061622)]<br>The BIEA is active in research into the history, archaeology and social sciences of Tanzania, Uganda, Kenya and surrounding countries. It encourages research by individual scholars, works with the universities, museums and antiquities services of the eastern African countries and liaises with international scholarship. It maintains a centre for research and a library at its base in Nairobi. | £858,649
<strong>THE BASE GREENHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1199188](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199188)]<br>The Base opened in February 2019 in partnership with Greenham Trust and Corn Exchange Newbury Trust. A purpose built visual arts and craft venue, comprising a 110sqm gallery, 8 artist studios and a workshop space for participatory classes. We present a varied programme of touring exhibitions alongside work from local artists and a number of visual arts and craft courses and workshops. | £272,643
<strong>DARTMOUTH MUSEUM ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [306635](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-306635)]<br>Up to 10,000 visitors a year since reopened Henley Collection. Upgraded Maritime history room reopened for 2010. Dartmouth's social and WW II story in 2011.  Upgraded shop 2020.  Accreditation 2008, 2011 and 2018. Talks in winter. Mayflower gallery Oct 2021. Outreach activities, schools/adults. Jesse Room (ceiling Tree of Jesse) during opening hours. Open 6 days a week all year bar 3 public hols. | £57,006
<strong>CORNWALL'S REGIMENTAL MUSEUM</strong> [Charity number: [1174375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174375)]<br>Our Main Activities: Opening the museum on average 6 days each week throughout the year, making our collection available to the visiting public,  providing a high-quality research service for the public, developing the museum?s collection and displays for the future public benefit, planning and raising funds to sustain and develop the work of the museum and support its long-term sustainability. | £265,139
<strong>COMPTON VERNEY HOUSE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1032478](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032478)]<br>Compton Verney is a nationally-accredited art gallery and historic, ?Capability? Brown-designed park located in the heart of the South Midlands, not far from Stratford-upon-Avon. We present a wealth of opportunities for discovery and enjoyment in our galleries and landscape, and we passionately believe in sharing everything our rich, multi-faceted site has to offer. | £741,622
