# Leisure `LE`

Leisure is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

29,594 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 14.61% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 10,207 | 13.63%
£10k - £100k | 11,203 | 16.37%
£100k - £250k | 2,639 | 12.66%
£250k - £500k | 1,308 | 13.10%
£500k - £1m | 724 | 11.68%
£1m - £10m | 885 | 10.38%
Over £10m | 165 | 8.00%
Total | 27,131 | 14.21%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 21,864 | 12.82%
oscr | 6,594 | 26.52%
ccni | 1,136 | 15.80%
Total | 29,594 | 14.61%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>THE ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222879)]<br>The RHS was founded in 1804 to inspire passion and excellence in horticulture.  We want to enrich everyone's life through plants, and make the UK a greener and more beautiful place.  To achieve our aim we undertake scientific research; provide education, training and horticultural advice; support community horticulture projects; and share our renowned gardens and shows with the public. | £122,096,000
<strong>The Royal Horticultural Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC038262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038262)]<br>The objects of the Society are the encouragement and improvement of the science, art and practice of horticulture in all its branches. | £120,496,000
<strong>SUSTRANS</strong> [Charity number: [326550](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-326550)]<br>Sustrans is the charity making it easier for people to walk and cycle. We are engineers and educators, experts and advocates.We connect people and places, create liveable neighbourhoods, transform the school run and deliver a happier, healthier commute.Sustrans works in partnership, bringing people together to find the right solutions. We make the case for walking and cycling with robust evidence. | £112,463,000
<strong>Sustrans</strong> [Charity number: [SC039263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039263)]<br>To promote and encourage both in the UK and overseas for the public benefit the development in the community of and the provision of safe routes, paths and facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy transport and to undertake and carry on projects and activities of a charitable nature which will assist in promoting healthy recreation, the protection of the environment and the conservation of energy resources. | £112,463,000
<strong>THE FOOTBALL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1079309](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079309)]<br>The Charity's current and on-going activities are:to put in place a new generation of modern facilities in parks, local leagues and schools;to provide capital/revenue support to increase participation in grass roots football, andto strenghten the links between football and the community and to harness its potential as a force for good in society. | £106,323,000
<strong>NURSING AND MIDWIFERY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1091434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091434)]<br>The NMC is the independent regulator for nurses and midwives in the UK. Our primary purpose is to protect patients and the public through effective and proportionate regulation of nurses and midwives. We set and promote standards of education and practice, maintain a register of those who meet these standards, and take action when a nurse's or midwife's fitness to practise is called into question. | £102,885,000
<strong>Richmond Fellowship Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC021621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021621)]<br>The objects of the Society are the relief of those who are vulnerable and in need of support, care, advice or other assistance due to reasons of their vulnerability. The Society will or may do this through: - The advancement of health and well being. - The advancement of education. - The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the objective of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. - The relief of those in need. This may be by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. - The prevention or relief of povert | £99,637,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Muckle Toon Adventure</strong> [Charity number: [SC044700](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044700)]<br>The objects of the Company are:- (a) to advance public participation in sport and to advance health, in particular (but without limitation) through the promotion, management, support, or organisation of sporting events or festivals in the area of Langholm or surrounding areas which are designed to increase public participation in sport, encourage healthy lifestyles, make sport more accessible, and provide opportunities for the public to engage in running, walking, cycling and mountain biking or other sports in a safe and enjoyable environment. and (b) to promote such similar charitable purposes or objects in such proportions and manner as the Directors shall think fit.  The expressions 'charitable purpose' or 'charitable object' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the 2005 Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts.  | £1,053
<strong>FISHERSGATE FLYERS FOOTBALL CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1203321](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1203321)]<br>To provide facilities, promote the game of Association Football, to arrange matches and social activities for its members and the community. | 
<strong>Elie Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042154)]<br>We direct the Trustees to hold such sums of money, stocks and shares and other assets as may in the future from time to time be paid or conveyed to the Trustees by us or other persons and the investments and property from time to time representing the same (all hereinafter referred to as 'the Trust Fund') as capital and to disburse from the Revenue income generated therefrom grants and donations to the beneficiaries as described in the Trust Conditions for the following purposes (hereinafter 'the Purposes'): (a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) the advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement: (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (o) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £590
<strong>ILKLEY YOUTH AND COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1021673](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021673)]<br>Promoting the benefits of the inhabitants of Ilkley and neighbourhood by advancing education & facilities for social welfare in recreation and leisure time occupation. Through co-operation with the local statutory authority & other local organisations securing the establishment, maintenance & management of a youth and community centre to further the association's objects. | £51,966
<strong>GREEN PARK COMBINED SCHOOL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1204293](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204293)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUPILS OF GREEN PARK COMBINED SCHOOL (THE “SCHOOL”) BY PROVIDING OR ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF EDUCATIONAL, RECREATIONAL AND OTHER CHARITABLE FACILITIES IN AUGMENTATION OF SUCH FACILITIES FINANCED BY THE LOCAL EDUCATION AUTHORITY OR THE DEPARTMENT FOR EDUCATION (DFE). IN FURTHERANCE OF THIS OBJECT BUT NOT FURTHER OR OTHERWISE THE CHARITY TRUSTEES MAY UNDERTAKE ACTIVITIES WHICH PROMOTE THE CHARITABLE WORK OF THE SCHOOL AND FURTHER THE EDUCATION AND ADVANCEMENT IN LIFE OF THE PUPILS. | 
<strong>Friends of Duchess Wood</strong> [Charity number: [SC039527](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039527)]<br>The Friends shall exist in order to assist in the management of the Duchess Wood and safeguard its benefits to the community in terms of biodiversity and quiet enjoyment by the public- including recreational and educational use. | £4,151
<strong>CLWB CERRIG</strong> [Charity number: [1201287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201287)]<br>TO PROVIDE THE NECESSARY FACILITIES FOR THE DAILY CARE, RECREATION AND EDUCATION OF CHILDREN OUT OF SCHOOL HOURS AND TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING OF THE PERSONS IN THE PROVISION OF SUCH CARE, EDUCATION AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES | 
<strong>JAGUARS WHEELCHAIR BASKETBALL CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1062064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062064)]<br>Wheelchair Basketball in Nottinghamshire and surrounding counties | £14,667
<strong>G20 Youth Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC052451](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052451)]<br>4.1 The advancement of education by 4.1.1 Providing learning and training opportunities and activities for young people not engaging in mainstream education 4.1.2 Organising public and schools events 4.1.3 Working with schools and other organisations to educate about trauma and to advocate for young people.  4.1.4 Working with young people and their families to access learning and personal development opportunities. 4.2 The provision of recreational facility, or the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, by 4.2.1Creating safe spaces which respond to the needs of young people facing barriers. 4.2.2Providing opportunities for young people and their families facing barriers to access support, events, community activities, recreation, personal development, volunteering and work. 4.2.3 Supporting young people and their families to access nature for healing and learning.   4.3 The advancement of citizenship or community development by  4.3.2 Working with the local community from G20 postcode area and with young people and their families who are at risk of addiction, offending or unemployment who live in Glasgow 4.3.3 Creating Intergnerational opportunities and engaging with harder to reach groups through events and linking up with other groups within the community 4.3.4 Through support and training allow young people to grow and develop, seek employment and take ownership of their lives and within their community 4.3.5 Support positive relationships between young people and the wider community 4.4.1.  through access to an arts and culture hub delivering training, events, projects and exhibitions 4.5 The relief of poverty 4.5.1  through access to work, training and personal development | 
<strong>Trondra Community Centre SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC048947](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048947)]<br>The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.  | £24,626
