# Sports `LE106`

Sports is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

13,949 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 6.85% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(basketball|baseball|soccer|volleyball|swimming|ultimate frisbee|polo|horseracing|skating|snowboarding|shinty|golf|triathlon|gymnastics|football|rugby|hockey|netball|tennis|badminton|racing|handball|karate|judo|ju( |-)?jitsu|squash|sport(s|ing)?|rowing|climbing|paddlesport|caving|mountaineering|skateboarding|canoeing|kayaking|swimming|skiing|climbing|skate ?-?park|cricket|bowls|martial arts?|athletics|sailing|archery|gymnastics?|boxing)`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 4,354 | 6.11%
£10k - £100k | 5,541 | 7.87%
£100k - £250k | 1,484 | 6.62%
£250k - £500k | 737 | 6.66%
£500k - £1m | 438 | 6.29%
£1m - £10m | 549 | 5.98%
Over £10m | 100 | 4.45%
Total | 13,203 | 6.82%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 10,839 | 6.32%
oscr | 2,507 | 10.05%
ccni | 603 | 8.63%
Total | 13,949 | 6.85%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £151,659,000
<strong>THE FOOTBALL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1079309](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079309)]<br>The Charity's current and on-going activities are:to put in place a new generation of modern facilities in parks, local leagues and schools;to provide capital/revenue support to increase participation in grass roots football, andto strenghten the links between football and the community and to harness its potential as a force for good in society. | £150,067,000
<strong>Edinburgh Merchant Company Education Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC009747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009747)]<br>The Education Board?s Charitable Purposes are: (a) the advancement of education, particularly the education and advancement of children and young people. (b) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science.  (c) the advancement of public participation in sport.  (d) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and (e) the advancement of citizenship or community development. | £83,053,812
<strong>THE WELLINGTON COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [309093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309093)]<br>The Charity aims to provide a world-class education that will enable its pupils to realise their full potential in academic, sporting, artistic and social skills and to engender in them a spirit of self-confidence, a desire to serve the wider community, an international outlook and an enthusiastic attitude to work and life. | £76,225,000
<strong>RUGBY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [528752](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-528752)]<br>The School's principal activity is the education and pastoral care of its pupils.The provision of a broad liberal Christian education at a boarding and day school at Rugby School for children from Rugby and neighbourhood and elsewhere, and by ancillary or incidental activities and other associated activities for the benefit of the community. | £56,986,000
<strong>Clanmil Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI103840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103840)]<br>Clanmil Housing provides high quality, affordable homes for rent throughout Northern Ireland and helps facilitate home ownership for people who cannot afford to purchase a home outright. By providing efficient, value for money maintenance and a responsive repair service we ensure that our tenants have high quality, comfortable homes they can be proud of. We work closely with local communities and their representatives to ensure that that the homes we build really meet their needs. Our homes are well designed with energy efficiency features. We work with our tenants to develop innovative solutions to problems and deliver community development programmes that address their needs and interests. We work in partnership with local authorities, social enterprises, residents groups and other agencies on: training and access to jobs; social, sport and wellbeing programmes; reducing anti-social behaviour; helping our tenants manage their personal finances. As with many in Northern Ireland, we believe that people who wish to live in mixed neighbourhoods should have that opportunity and we are committed to continuing to deliver shared neighbourhoods. Looking to the future, we believe we can make a real difference for our tenants by focusing our efforts in four key areas: 1. Customer: We will understand our customers better and focus everything we do on providing the best possible homes and services. 2. Organisation: We will develop our people and the organisation to ensure we are best placed to deliver great homes and services that matter. 3. Growth: We will build more homes for people who need them. 4. Communication: We will communicate better with our stakeholders so that they know what decisions we have taken and why. | £56,889,968
<strong>KING'S COLLEGE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [310024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310024)]<br>The Charity supervises three schools which are independent day schools for pupils who are educated up to the age of university entrance. The Schools seek to provide academic education of high quality, extended by a broad range of cultural and sporting opportunities and supported by a responsive pastoral system and firm moral framework. | £55,302,000
<strong>The Suttie Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC053301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053301)]<br>The Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund for such purposes ('Purposes') only as are within the meaning of charitable purposes in terms of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 as amended or superseded from time to time which are also regarded as charitable purposes in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts from time to time in force. DECLARING that the Purposes may include all or any of the following purposes:-  3.1 the prevention or relief of poverty. 3.2 the advancement of education. 3.3 the advancement of health. 3.4 the saving of lives. 3.5 the advancement of citizenship or community development. 3.6 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 3.7 the advancement of public participation in sport. 3.8 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 3.9 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 3.10 the advancement of animal welfare. and 3.11 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £50,000,020
<strong>Postcode Justice Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043779)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:  3.1 the advancement of education.  3.2 the advancement of health.  3.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.5 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.6 the promotion of equality and diversity.  | £49,303,056
<strong>Postcode Children Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044773)]<br>3 	The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2	The advancement of education.  3.3	The advancement of health.  3.4	The saving of lives.  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.6	The advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.7	The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £49,118,245


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Football Clubs United (NI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI103364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103364)]<br>Provide football opportunities for adults with learning disabilities, through football training, football matches, coaching and development. | £8,105
<strong>THE BASIL RUSSELL TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1000726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000726)]<br>The Basil Russell Trust assists the youth of Rolvenden Kent and surrounding villages with their education, adventure, sport and personal development. We are able to make a wide range of payments but the applicant, be they an individual, club, charity or group, must directly benefit someone who fulfils both the youth and location criteria. | £12,154
<strong>Onward Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC028389](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028389)]<br>(i) The preservation and protection of the mental health and the relief of poverty, hardship and distress of and among spouses, partners, families, dependants and friends of individuals who have suffered a legal restriction of their liberty and are detained in prison or other similar place of confinement involving such a restiction by the establishment of and maintenance of visitors reception centres  (ii) The encouragement of educational projects  (iii) The foundation, endowment and equipment of schools, colleges and other centres of learning, libraries, sports and welfare centres   (iv) The encouragement of the study and practice of any useful branch of human knowledge (including research and particularly medical research) by the provision of buildings equipment or otherwise  (v) The establishment of educational scholarships of any kind at any University, College or place of higher learning or any school  (vi) The relief of poverty and need of those in necessitous circumstances | £153
<strong>CHESTERTON AMATEUR FOOTBALL CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1138708](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138708)]<br>The promotion of community participation in healthy recreation for the benefit of the public by the provision of facilities and making arrangement for playing football. To involve the wider community in activities such as training and providing community events | £33,638
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Old Meldrum Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC004429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004429)]<br>4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £180,826
<strong>Harthill, Eastfield & Greenrigg Community Group (HEG)</strong> [Charity number: [SC045681](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045681)]<br>3.1 The Advancement of Citizenship or Community Development. 3.2 The Advancement of the Arts, Heritage, Culture or Science. 3.3 The Advancement of public participation in sport. 3.4 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement  | £23,074
<strong>ISLINGTON AND FINSBURY YOUTH CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [280886](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280886)]<br>Soccer-PE, indoor darts & ABA boxing. Also London youth competitions. | 
<strong>Paul Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC023880](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023880)]<br>For the provision of facilities for sport, recreation, adult education, drama, music or other cultural or recreational activities, or the provision of financial or other assistance to the aged, needy or infirm, in the interests of the social welfare of persons in Killearn, Balfron and surrounding area in Scotland or to support or assist any voluntary associations, clubs or other organisations having the like objects, or to support or assist any person in respect of educational or instructional classes in the trade, profession or vocation which such person practises or intends to practise | £12,876
<strong>Killyleagh Football Club</strong> [Charity number: [NI100318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100318)]<br>Killyleagh Football Club currently runs seven football teams, encompassing men, women and youths aged between eight and eighteen. Killyleagh Football Club provides leisure facilities for the residents of Killyleagh and the surrounding area for the playing of football. Killyleagh Football Club provides facilities for the community of Killyleagh and the surrounding area for non-sporting activities, trainings and workshops, functions and community events. | £34,849
<strong>THE SUDANESE COPTIC ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1047955](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1047955)]<br>We provide advice and advocacy for Sudanese Coptic people to enable them to access services such as health, education, benefits and employmentWe hold fortnightly family gathering with sport, entertainments and lectures at Impulse Leisure centre, Southwick. We also arrange seasonal activities such as trips, parties and open days. | £17,131
