# Recreation `LE105`

Recreation is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

18,111 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 8.94% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(recreational|recreation|leisure|entertainment)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 6,355 | 8.42%
£10k - £100k | 6,556 | 9.62%
£100k - £250k | 1,515 | 7.30%
£250k - £500k | 773 | 7.85%
£500k - £1m | 409 | 6.64%
£1m - £10m | 491 | 5.77%
Over £10m | 105 | 5.16%
Total | 16,204 | 8.49%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 12,213 | 7.17%
oscr | 5,404 | 21.66%
ccni | 494 | 6.86%
Total | 18,111 | 8.94%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ROYAL MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222377)]<br>Provide support and advice services for people with a learning disabilty including care and support, advocacy, housing, leisure and employment. We work to improve services, challenge prejudice and directly support people to live their lives as they choose. We offer support through our website, printed resources and helpline. Our regional advisers offer direct support by phone, email and in person. | £216,112,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>Sustrans</strong> [Charity number: [SC039263](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039263)]<br>To promote and encourage both in the UK and overseas for the public benefit the development in the community of and the provision of safe routes, paths and facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy transport and to undertake and carry on projects and activities of a charitable nature which will assist in promoting healthy recreation, the protection of the environment and the conservation of energy resources. | £112,463,000
<strong>Richmond Fellowship Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC021621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021621)]<br>The objects of the Society are the relief of those who are vulnerable and in need of support, care, advice or other assistance due to reasons of their vulnerability. The Society will or may do this through: - The advancement of health and well being. - The advancement of education. - The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the objective of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. - The relief of those in need. This may be by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. - The prevention or relief of povert | £99,637,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>Elim Foursquare Gospel Alliance</strong> [Charity number: [SC037754](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037754)]<br>The Objects of the Alliance are:- 1. to spread and propagate the full Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ and primarily but not exclusively the Foundational Truths hereinafter Fourthly set forth. 2. to demonstrate the full Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ by the relief of people who by reason of their disability, age, infirmity, sickness, social or economic circumstances or caring responsibilities have a need of health, social care or other related community services or recreational facilities by the provision of information, advice, support and other services and facilities calculated to relieve those needs. and 3. to demonstrate the full Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ by the advancement of education in such ways as may from time to time be charitable. | £78,855,130
<strong>Edinburgh Merchant Company Education Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC009747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009747)]<br>The Education Board?s Charitable Purposes are: (a) the advancement of education, particularly the education and advancement of children and young people. (b) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science.  (c) the advancement of public participation in sport.  (d) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and (e) the advancement of citizenship or community development. | £76,933,963
<strong>THE HARPUR TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1066861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1066861)]<br>A local foundation that uses the legacy of Sir William Harpur, the founder in 1566, to benefit the inhabitants of the Borough of Bedford through the promotion of education; the relief of poverty, sickness and distress; and the provision of recreational facilities with a social welfare purpose. | £68,626,000
<strong>The Prince's Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC041198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041198)]<br>(i) To promote by all charitable means the mental, spiritual, moral and physical development and improvement of young people and to provide opportunities for them to develop their full capacities and enable them to become responsible members of society so that their conditions of life may be improved, to include: (a) providing facilities for young people for recreation or other leisure time occupation in the interests of social welfare.  (b) advancing the education of young people by the provision, encouragement and promotion of education, instruction or training in professions, vocations, industries, crafts, trades or the skills needed in employment.  (c) relieving poverty amongst young people through the provision of assistance (including financial assistance) and encouragement whilst their education is being advanced as aforesaid or whilst they are in the process of establishing new businesses or preparing for entering upon or engaging in a profession, trade, craft or service.  (d) arranging periods of voluntary work in the community. and  (e) for the benefit of the public encouraging and assisting young people in their understanding of and practical action in support of the natural and built environment.  (ii) To promote and conduct research into social conditions affecting young people and the mental, spiritual, moral and physical needs of young people and to publish the useful results of such research.  (iii) To carry out any such approved objects (as defined by Regulation 33 of the Landfill Tax Regulations 1996 or any amendment thereto) as are exclusively charitable and to encourage young people particularly to do so.  (iv) To support such charity or charities or such charitable purpose or purposes as the Council shall in its absolute discretion think fit  | £68,010,000
<strong>MILLFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [310283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310283)]<br>The education of children and young people within Millfield School and Millfield Prep School (including Pre-Prep); the development of associated extra-curricular activites; the operation of educational and recreational courses. | £64,058,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BROUGHTON PLAYING FIELDS AND VILLAGE HALL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [276511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276511)]<br>The Charity provides a main hall, meeting rooms and sports facilities for the benefit of the local community. It manages and maintains these for the use of groups, organisations and individuals, including use for meetings, lectures, classes and other forms of recreation and leisure time occupation, with the object of improving the condition of life in Broughton. | £51,611
<strong>The Drummond Centre Project Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI105851](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105851)]<br>We strive to reduce poverty amongst families in the Donemana and surrounding area by providing accessible affordable services for children, young people and their parents. The services include junior youth club, drop-in centre and educational & recreational courses. All services are provided locally to reduce travel and costs for family. We work in partnership with other statutory organisations including Western Education & Library Board and Police & Community Safety Partnership to organise educational programmes for parents and volunteers including first aid and child protection training thus increasing the capacity & capability within the group. We also organise football coaching, dancing classes, healthy cooking classes and boxercising thus increasing the physical activity of participants and reducing social isolation amongst families, parents & carers. Educational activities also include youth worker training schemes eg personal development for young people. We also identify funding to organise an annual summer scheme for primary school children to attend, to reduce incidents of antisocial behaviour and increase social interaction betwen children as this rural area has poor transport links. We provide a facility where local organisations who do not have their own premises are able to hire by the hour for training, workshops and meetings. We work with other groups in the area to run programmes for young adults in the summer We provide our volunteers with training and further development as required which can be used in other organisations ie school or church | £22,025
<strong>LOWER BEMERTON RECREATION GROUND AND ENDOWMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1081377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081377)]<br>To provide a recreational facility. | £12,095
<strong>Castlemilk Youth Complex Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC022534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022534)]<br>The company's objects are: (1) To provide in the interests of social welfare facilities for recreation and other leisure time activity available to the public at large within Castlemilk (referred to as 'the Operating Area') with a view to improving their conditions of life. (2) To advance education through promotion of the arts. (3) To promote training in skills of all kinds, particularly such skills as will assist residents of the Operating Area in obtaining paid employment. (4) To relieve the needs of young person’s suffering from mental or physical disability, illness or impairment. (5) To relieve poverty. (6) To promote, establish, operate and/or support other schemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area. | £701,664
<strong>Park 60 Plus Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI104960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104960)]<br>The group is established to promote the welfare of the aged in any manner deemed by law to be charitable. to provide a range of facilities for older people living in an isolated rural area providing social recreational and health related activities among people aged 60 or over in the Park area. | £2,440
<strong>Rosehall Village Hall Committee</strong> [Charity number: [SC051320](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051320)]<br>4.1 The advancement of Citizenship or Community Development 4.2 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. | £22,263
<strong>Beyond Boundaries</strong> [Charity number: [SC045325](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045325)]<br>1.This clause shall be interpreted as if it incorporates an over-riding qualification limiting the powers of the SCIO such that any activity which would otherwise be permitted by the terms of this constitution may be carried on only if that activity furthers a purpose which is regarded as charitable.  Subject to that overriding qualification, the SCIO is established for charitable purposes only and the SCIO?s principal purpose is for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere to:- 1. advance education. 2. advance public participation in sport. and 3. provide recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, by promoting and facilitating participation by women in the sport of cricket in Scotland.  | £5,650
<strong>Campbeltown Junior Agricultural Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC021879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021879)]<br>To advance the education and training of young people at large in rural issues, agriculture, homecrafts and related subject  To advance the development of active citizens through development off individuals involvement within their local community and leadership of their Young Farmer Group.  In the interests of social welfare of young people in rural Scotland provide and promote the provision of activities for recreation and other leisure time occupations which will improve their conditions of life and will assist in the development of their spiritual and mental capacities and self reliance and individual responsibility.  | £7,364
<strong>GREATER LONDON YOUTH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1166616](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166616)]<br>To advance in life and help young people through:(a) The provision of recreational and leisure time activities provided in the interest of socialwelfare, designed to improve their conditions of life;(b) Providing support and activities which develop their skills, capacities and capabilities toenable them to participate in society as mature and responsible individuals | £24,296
<strong>Toberonochy Village Hall Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC047061](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047061)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To promote the benefit of the community resident in the village, district and neighbourhood without distinction of disability, sex, political, religious or other opinions by associating the inhabitants in a common effort to advance education and to provide facilities in the interest of social welfare, for recreation and leisure time occupation with the objective of improving conditions of life for the members of the community. 4.2 To foster a community spirit for the achievement of these and other such objectives as may by law deemed to be charitable. 4.3 In furtherance thereof, to maintain and manage a community centre (known as Toberonochy Village Hall) for activities promoted by the Trust and other associations in furtherance of these objectives.  | £1,194
