# Outdoor pursuits `LE104`

Outdoor pursuits is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

1,052 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.52% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(outdoor (education(al)?|pursuits?|activit(ies|y)+)+|camping|hiking|canoeing|climbing|abseiling|zip wire|orienteering|d of e|duke of edinburgh award)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 366 | 0.48%
£10k - £100k | 468 | 0.69%
£100k - £250k | 89 | 0.43%
£250k - £500k | 37 | 0.38%
£500k - £1m | 29 | 0.47%
£1m - £10m | 21 | 0.25%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.15%
Total | 1,013 | 0.53%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 911 | 0.53%
oscr | 101 | 0.40%
ccni | 40 | 0.56%
Total | 1,052 | 0.52%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KIRKLEES ACTIVE LEISURE</strong> [Charity number: [1091226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091226)]<br>The provision of sports and leisure facilities for the communities of Kirklees and surrounding neighbourhoods. This comprises swimming (including provision of an extensive lessons programme), fitness suites, keep fit classes, a wide range of sports hall activities, indoor/outdoor tennis, outdoor activities (including football, hockey, etc.), indoor climbing, indoor bowls and track & field events. | £17,297,446
<strong>FIELD STUDIES COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [313364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313364)]<br>Our charitable activities are the 'bringing of environmental understanding to all'.  We do this by the advancement of outdoor education, the protection of the environment and the pursuit of field studies. | £17,021,639
<strong>YMCA FAIRTHORNE GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1090981](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090981)]<br>Working with communities in Hampshire and IOW & providingAfter School Clubs, Holiday Play Schemes, Volunteering Projects, Early Years Childcare, Residential Group Facilities, Daycamps, National Young Carers Festival, Outreach Youth Projects,In school youth work, Holiday Playschemes for Children With Special Needs, Outdoor Education, Forest School, Supported Housing for Young People, | £12,276,000
<strong>FYLDE COAST YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [1074571](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074571)]<br>Fylde Coast YMCA is an inclusive organisation providing quality services to the local community, which stimulates and challenges people, especially the young - empowering them to develop in mind, body and spirit.We develop a range of quality services for the local community with emphasis on Housing, Physical Activity, Outdoor Education and Young People | £7,988,269
<strong>THE NEW FOREST AGRICULTURAL SHOW SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1004255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1004255)]<br>Operates the New Forest & Hampshire County Show. Manages New Park, Brockenhurst. Provides youth camping facilities. Supports agricultural & forest based activities and charities. Broad based education throughout the annual show. | £5,582,040
<strong>MOUNTAIN TRAINING TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1064023](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064023)]<br>The advancement for the public benefit of education and training ( in conjunction where appropriate with other bodies or persons) in skills for the conduct of safe walking, running, canoeing, climbing,orienteering, mountaineering, skiing, mountain biking and other recreational activities generally practiced in the outdoors or in sea, hill, cliff and mountain environments. Conduct of safe activity. | £3,459,333
<strong>STUBBERS ADVENTURE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1080941](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080941)]<br>Provision of adventurous activities including but not limited to:  Sailing, Canoeing,Jet Ski and inflatable tows,Climbing,High Ropes, Abseil,Archery, Shooting, All Terrain Boards, Off Road driving, Team Build Activities including improvised rafts.Provision of Accommodation (Catered and Self catering): Brick built residential building (48 beds) tent villages (200 beds) | £3,277,064
<strong>LEE ABBEY FELLOWSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1094097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094097)]<br>Promoting the renewal and growth of the Church through mission, evangelism teaching and training by means of a Christian Community which includes the running of holidays, conferences and camps. To reach children and young people both churched and un-churched through the operation of The Beacon Youth and Outdoor Activity Centre. | £2,395,720
<strong>ALZHEIMERS SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1048314](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048314)]<br>Alzheimer's Support exists to improve quality of life for people with all types of dementia and family carers. Services include: Dementia Advisers, Home Support, Day Clubs, carers groups, Alzheimer Cafes, Music for the Mind, Movement for the Mind, art groups, a range of outdoor activities, training courses for carers and local information and support offices. | £2,204,563
<strong>The Welcome Organisation</strong> [Charity number: [NI103976](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103976)]<br>Formed 18 years ago, The Welcome Organisation provides a range of support services to people who are homeless or vulnerable and at risk of homelessness. Services include a Drop-in Centre, Day and Night Street Outreach service, Floating Support and a Crisis accommodation for vulnerable females. Drop-in Centre (8.00 am – 10 pm daily) Our Drop-In Centre at 36 Townsend Street, Belfast, is open from 8am-10pm, 365 days of the year. It acts as the ‘hub’ for all of our services and is also our administration base. From here we offer the following: • Access to health care through the provision of 2 clinics per week and immediate access to peripatetic nursing care • Referral agency to accommodation, mental health, drug and alcohol services • Drug and alcohol clinics weekly • Needle exchange • Weekly housing clinic • Life skills / client volunteer programme • Basic literacy and numeracy assistance • Multi-disciplinary case management • Advocacy / Support to include court, benefits, statutory appeals etc. • Therapeutic interventions to include outdoor pursuits and ‘Street Gems’ – a creative and meaningful engagement programme • Emergency access point to other accommodation programmes • Mental health worker. We accept referrals from other agencies but this service is open to anyone over 18 who is homeless or at risk of homelessness. Day street outreach (8.00 am – 10pm daily) & Night time street outreach (10pm – 1.00 am nightly) Our outreach service provides on-street contact and floating support, linking daily with many of the city’s most vulnerable people, particularly street drinkers and rough sleepers. Crisis accommodation for females with challenging behaviours: (9.00 pm – 8.00 am nightly) Crisis service for females, most of whom have exhausted all other support accommodation options. This group currently accesses support services through our drop-in facility. | £2,075,941


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>10TH DEAL (EASTRY) SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [280777](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280777)]<br>To help to educate, develop and enhance local childrens life and to be involved in the surrounding areas sports, outdoor activities and fund raising activities. | £7,769
<strong>STOKE ON TRENT UNIT 321 OF THE SEA CADET CORPS</strong> [Charity number: [522729](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-522729)]<br>The Sea Cadets has been in the Stoke on Trent area since 1938 providing activities for young people from 9-18 years old. As a micro-charity we provide these young people with activities and qualifications in Kayaking, Canoeing, Power boating, Sailing, First Aid, Cook Steward, Seamanship, Shooting, Engineering, Field Craft, Duke of Edinburgh. Recognised qualifications can by gained i.e. BTech's | £23,233
<strong>4TH DARLASTON SCOUT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [503816](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-503816)]<br>To offer outdoor activities to children/ teenagers aged 6 upwards in line with the Scouting Policy. | £4,777
<strong>Hope for Addiction UK Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC047631](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047631)]<br>4 The Trust's charitable purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of the Christian Faith  (principally in Glasgow) through the rehabilitation and care of substance abusers, misusers and addicts and those in society who are marginalised and the relief of deprivation arising from poverty through support, education and protection based upon and inspired by the principles of the Christian Gospel in diverse, practical and organised outreach programmes.  4.2 The advancement of education of those who through poverty, deprivation, lack of opportunity or family dysfunction have not had the opportunities of others to experience the benefits of education by the provision of training, assistance and encouragement based upon and inspired by the principles of the Christian Gospel.  4.3 The advancement of public participation in sports and outdoor activities through the promotion of and instruction in outdoor activities of all kinds.  4.4 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational facilities with the object of improving health and the conditions of life for persons for whom the facilities or activities are provided to include the provision of facilities for the members of the local communities in which outdoor activities centres run by the Charity are situated.  4.5 The advancement of citizenship and community development by educating and encouraging people of all ages but particularly young people to take responsibility for their own physical wellbeing and, in turn, to promote the health and physical wellbeing of others.  4.6 The promotion of religious and racial harmony and the encouragement and acceptance of diversity in society | £193,662
<strong>WYRE FOREST CANOE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1111262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111262)]<br>The charity actively promotes the sport of canoeing within the community as a health recreational sport. The coaches give their time to teach newcomers the skills of canoeing. | £3,834
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF WHITE HALL CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1191557](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191557)]<br>The charity fundraises and advocates for White Hall Outdoor Education Centre | £6,297
<strong>BELCHAMPS SCOUT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1015218](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015218)]<br>To provide camping facilities and indoor accommodation for members of the scout and guide associations, other youth organisations,schools, and community groups and also to provide a wide range of activities suitable for the 6 to 25 age group within the general principles of the Scout movement | £230,127
<strong>Aboyne Canoe Club SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC047329](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047329)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To foster, develop and advance public participation in the sport of canoeing and kayaking for the people of Aboyne and Upper Deeside. 4.2 To provide recreational facilities and organise recreational activities for the practice of the sport of canoeing and kayaking and in particular to support club members to gain awards. to provide training and coaching and to provide opportunities for members to try different aspects of water sport activities. | £10,314
<strong>143RD BIRMINGHAM SCOUT GROUP ST JAMES HILL</strong> [Charity number: [507987](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-507987)]<br>Activities are carried out in accordance with THe Scout Association Policy Organisation and Rules. These include camping, expedtions, canoeing, sports, social activities,  music, human relationships and many more.All activities are regulated to siut the different age ranges and acheivemnts are gained  through a series of award schemes | £26,068
<strong>Lagan Rivers Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103410](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103410)]<br>Powers and activities What we do. We initially held open meetings with all interested parties and organisations, gaining support from all. We have worked in partnership with NIEA, Belfast Hills, the Woodland Trust, Ulster Wildlife Trust,Ulster Angling Federation, several angling groups and clubs, community groups and local politicians, and Lagan Valley Regional Park. We have trained and equipped two groups of volunteers in invertebrate sampling techniques and recording, the results of which are shared with NIEA and on a national database. This scheme gives monthly results which helps to monitor the health of the river. It also gives a focus of interest and education to the broader community. Through this program we have identified several pollution sources, and helped to stop them. We have conducted surveys and sampling in inaccessible areas of the river by canoe, highlighting pollution and invasive species. We have attended the Water Framework meetings on a regular basis, to discuss and work with stakeholders. We have undertaken several river and bank clean-up days with various partner groups. We have given advice and help to several angling groups on starting up clubs, with the intention of them taking care of their part of the river. We have taken over custodianship of a community woodland, with river bank access, with a view to a river improvement project in partnership with the community and council. We have negotiated a lease for water rights on a section of the Lagan with a view to a large scale improvement project, and also to give us some river rights in law. This helps us to fight pollution. We have had discussions with the Farmers Union and landowners on how to reduce agricultural pollution. Two trustees are currently applying for AccessNI clearance to put programs into community summer schemes to include canoeing, fishing instruction, and the environment. | 
