# Gardening `LE102`

Gardening is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](/data/ukcat/LE) category.

1,225 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.60% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(gardening|horticultur(e|al)|cultivation|grow (food|vegetables?))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 393 | 0.52%
£10k - £100k | 451 | 0.66%
£100k - £250k | 112 | 0.54%
£250k - £500k | 68 | 0.69%
£500k - £1m | 39 | 0.63%
£1m - £10m | 60 | 0.71%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.34%
Total | 1,130 | 0.59%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 944 | 0.55%
oscr | 203 | 0.81%
ccni | 78 | 1.08%
Total | 1,225 | 0.60%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222879)]<br>The RHS was founded in 1804 to inspire passion and excellence in horticulture.  We want to enrich everyone's life through plants, and make the UK a greener and more beautiful place.  To achieve our aim we undertake scientific research; provide education, training and horticultural advice; support community horticulture projects; and share our renowned gardens and shows with the public. | £122,096,000
<strong>The Royal Horticultural Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC038262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038262)]<br>The objects of the Society are the encouragement and improvement of the science, art and practice of horticulture in all its branches. | £122,096,000
<strong>THE MAYFLOWER THEATRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294745)]<br>The primary objectives of the trust as defined by the memorandum and articles of association are the encouragement of the arts, the promotion and advancement of education, and the cultivation and improvement of public education in drama, mime, opera, singing, music, dance, painting, and sculpture, cinema, literature and other arts. | £25,566,092
<strong>Moredun Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC022515](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022515)]<br>The Company is established to: (i) undertake, promote and assist in promoting and undertaking experimental and other scientific research concerning the diseases of farm livestock, wild and domestic animals, fish and birds and other scientific research in areas which affect animal welfare, human health, the environment or otherwise is of public concern and to disseminate the results of such research and generally to promote agricultural, arboricultural and horticultural research and the dissemination of the results of such research. and (ii) contribute to the relief of poverty in the poorer populations of the world: a) to provide veterinary and agricultural aid to the poorer populations of the world. b) by its actions to contribute to the relief of poverty in those poorer populations. c) through participation in the teaching and popularisation of animal health and production techniques appropriate to those poorer populations. d) through promotion and co-operation in the achievement of the above purposes and to that end, to bring together representatives of voluntary agencies and statutory authorities engaged in the furtherance of the above purposes or any of them. | £18,238,343
<strong>THE ROYAL ACADEMY OF DRAMATIC ART</strong> [Charity number: [312819](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312819)]<br>To promote and operate an academy of dramatic art. To advance the art of drama by means of giving instruction in and promoting the study, practice and knowledge of dramatic literature. To promote and supervise such instruction most condusive to the cultivation and dissemination of the art of drama in the United Kingdom and English speaking world. | £15,306,000
<strong>Moredun Research Institute</strong> [Charity number: [SC022353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022353)]<br>The Company is established to undertake, promote and assist in promoting and undertaking experimental and other scientific research concerning the diseases of farm livestock and of other animals whose health affects that of farm livestock and other scientific research concerning animal disease which affects animal welfare, human health, the environment or otherwise is of public concern and to disseminate the results of such research and generally to promote agricultural, arboricultural and horticultural research and the dissemination of the results of such research. | £12,652,993
<strong>GREENHAM TRUST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1062762](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062762)]<br>Community Development, External Grants, Nature Conservation, Arts , Partnership Working, Sport and Recreation,Resource Centre for Disadvantaged Groups, Horticultural Therapy Centre , and Support for Local Rural Communities. Investment in property to enable partnership working and better services.We operate in Newbury and the surrounding area (West Berkshire and North Hants). | £12,221,132
<strong>Grimsthorpe & Drummond Castle Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039364)]<br>To advance education, to advance promote and aid such other purposes as are recognised by English law to be exclusively charitable and in particular but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing:- (i) To preserve for the public benefit the whole or such part or parts of the buildings and their grounds known as Grimsthorpe in the County of Lincolnshire (hereinafter called 'Grimsthorpe') and Drummond Castle in the district of Perth and Kinross (hereinafter called 'Drurnmond Castle') as shall or may hereafter be vested in the Company or in respect of which the Company shall have any interest therein. (ii) To protect and improve the amenities of Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle in pursuance of the objects of the Company. (iii) To preserve for the public benefit as adjuncts to Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle furniture, pictures and other chattels ordinarily kept thereat or which may be given or loaned to the Company and which the Company shall consider to be appropriate to be kept at Grimsthorpe or Drummond Castle. (iv) To facilitate and encourage access to and study and appreciation of Grimsthorpe and its surrounding land together with such furniture, pictures and chattels as aforesaid by the general public as a typical example of an historic Lincolnshire estate representing a family property and collection of chattels and objets d'art assembled over many generations. (v) To facilitate and encourage research into natural history, horticulture, agriculture, forestry and allied sciences provided that the results of , such research be available for dissemination to the public. (vi) To facilitate, encourage and promote the study of art, music, architecture and literature.  (vii) To facilitate and encourage the use and occupation of the whole or part of Grimsthorpe and Drummond Castle and the use of such chattels as, aforesaid for the advancement of education and learning. | £8,231,705
<strong>MINSTEAD TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1053319](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053319)]<br>Provision of residential and day training work, social and domestic skills for young adults with learning disabilities. Provided through a range of activities from classroom studies, different levels of supervised accommodation in our own premises at local supported housing, work place skills through extensive horticultural and workplace facilities as well as work placements in the community. | £6,494,316
<strong>THREE COUNTIES AGRICULTURAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [511868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511868)]<br>The Society's primary object is the encouragement of agricultural  and horticultural enterprise and the promotion of improvements in the breeding, rearing and health of livestock, the improvement of agricultural and horticultural produce and the invention and improvement of agricultural implements and the encouragement of husbandry. | £6,460,830


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FRIENDS OF HOLLICKWOOD SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1185552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185552)]<br>We aim to improve the lives and experiences of all pupils at Hollickwood School, and those of their families and thelocal community. We do this by raising money at community events such as our Fireworks Night and Summer Fair. We work together with the school to provide funding where it's most needed. This includes funding for the arts, gardening, school trips and improvements to the grounds. | £10,655
<strong>LIVING A LIFE</strong> [Charity number: [1183047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183047)]<br>We help people receiving care in their home (in the Vale of Glamorgan) do things they enjoy such as chess, gardening,   listening to music, birdwatching or whatever they like to talk about or do.  We do this by finding people who share their interests, likes and dislikes - 'Soulmates' - who can talk about and do things with them that they both like and enjoy. | 
<strong>Oldmeldrum Green Growing Space SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC051326](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051326)]<br>4.1 To advance environmental protection or improvement by encouraging a variety of people to use the allotments for cultivation of flowers, fruit, herbs, and vegetables and by helping to raise awareness of issues such as food waste, reducing food miles, benefits associated with 'growing-your-own', increasing composting, encouraging pollinators, increasing biodiversity and issues surrounding the protection of the environment. 4.2 To provide recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended by providing affordable allotment and/or cooperative growing spaces and opportunities for people to keep physically, mentally and socially active. 4.3 The advancement of citizenship or community development by organising and encouraging participation in events and local workshops. 4.4 To promote collaborative working with local community groups/organisations and local schools. 4.5 To foster good relations with residential neighbours and local statutory and non-statutory bodies. | £53,850
<strong>BROCKWELL PARK COMMUNITY GREENHOUSES</strong> [Charity number: [1140590](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140590)]<br>Brockwell Park Community Greenhouses provides educational and training resource in sustainable horticultureand promotes physical and mental well-being through horticultural activities and engagement with the natural world.In addition the charity promotes wildlife and biodiversity and promotes healthy-eating and local food-growing. | £180,344
<strong>Kirkmichael Community Garden</strong> [Charity number: [SC052109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052109)]<br>The charitable purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are:  the advancement of community development through provision of and participation in community garden spaces in a sustainable and inclusive manner.  to provide recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended by providing community garden spaces and opportunities for people to keep physically and socially active.  the advancement of education of the general public in horticulture and sustainable development and the protection and improvement of the natural environment through good environmental practices by supporting, encouraging and seeking to improve gardening of all kinds in Kirkmichael through the provision of community garden spaces by encouraging and teaching a range of outdoor skills and pursuits, promoting the benefits of the natural environment and living more sustainably.  to advance environmental improvement through the growing of food locally, leading to a reduction in carbon footprint, increased resilience, and opportunities for recycling organic and other materials and by promoting the benefits of and demonstrating a range of good environmental and horticultural practices such as organic growing, composting, and through reducing, re-using and recycling of resources. | £25,966
<strong>WOODTHORPE WOMEN'S INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1022012](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1022012)]<br>Meetings; trips and outings; educational talks and visits; socialising together and with other W.I.'s.book club; gardening club; theater visits | £2,457
<strong>Eglinton Men's Shed</strong> [Charity number: [NI107554](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107554)]<br>Eglinton Men’s Shed was established following a public meeting in early 2017 with a Constitution being formally adopted at a Special General Meeting on April 12, 2017. The organisation started with essentially nothing except for the offer of a derelict building for a nominal annual rent. Through the voluntary efforts of members and other members of the community this building has been transformed into highly functional facilities with a large social area, wood-working/turning workshop, kitchen, meeting room and office. Although upgrade work continues, the building and organisation have been functional since about April 2018 such that we could attract more members and contribute to meeting our stated purpose. The latest addition in 2019 is a poly-tunnel behind the main building. The building is currently open 3 days/week (Tues, Wed, Thurs) 10:00-14:00hrs and Wed 19:00 - 22:00hrs. The most important aspect of our activities is the provision of a warm, safe and pleasant environment for members and guests to visit and use, whether they wish to be involved in woodworking, gardening, playing pool and other games, using our free library or simply sitting down for coffee and a chat. Other activities includes a "walking group" (Tuesdays am) comprising members, partners and occasional visitors. In the Shed, on a regular basis during the autumn and winter, a series of free public talks are organised covering a wide range of subjects e.g. alcohol dependency, scam awareness, mental & physical health, home security, mindfulness, fire safety, historical topics and presentations from a number of local and national charities. Significant numbers from across the community attend. Various social events are held in the Shed e.g. Xmas party, treasure hunt, barbecue. Members of the Shed are active in the Best Kept Village initiative doing a lot of clean-up work and flower planting. Many items for local schools and churches have made in our workshop at low cost. | £11,625
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF PLATT FIELDS</strong> [Charity number: [1182191](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182191)]<br>Activities to further the objectives of the charity. This includes campaigning, fundraising, working with partners including the local authority, and spending on events, gardening, and encouraging volunteer activity. | 
<strong>HANBURY COUNTRYSIDE SHOW SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1160102](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160102)]<br>The principal activity is to promote and encourage ,horticulture, conservation and forestry for the public benefit and to improve and advance them in all branches and in all trades,crafts and professions with them in an exclusively charitable manner.Educational advancement  in all the above by granting of bursaries.Promotion of the above to the public  by holding of an annual show. | £151,430
<strong>The Purple Heart Network</strong> [Charity number: [SC046109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046109)]<br>4 The Purple Heart Network aims to improve environmental and social justice outcomes for people locally and globally by supporting citizens, communities, businesses and decision makers to work together to ensure people and places are healthier, happier and have the opportunity to thrive.  4.1 To advance environmental protection we will:  4.1.1 Raise awareness of the connection between local actions and their impact upon climate change ? both at locally and globally. 4.1.2 Encourage people, across society, to take steps and make choices that reduce their contribution, and that of their local and national community, to climate change. 4.1.3 Highlight the connection between environmental & social justice, locally and globally. 4.1.4 Work across society to encourage collaboration which supports the design, development and delivery of environmentally sensitive interventions that are also socially sensitive and ensure they are accessible to all ? regardless of socio-economic factors.  4.1.5 Build the capacity of communities, businesses and individuals to influence policy and decision making on environmental issues.  4.2 We will advance citizenship and community development by:  4.2.1 Working directly with people in communities, supporting them to identity and address the physical and social needs of their communities.  4.2.2 Providing high quality volunteering opportunities that allow people to build their skills and use their experiences to support positive change.  4.2.3 Supporting communities to develop community designed and delivered solutions that bring immediate benefit to their local environment and the people who live there.  4.2.4 Supporting citizens, communities and businesses to engage with decision makers, building civic responsibility and knowledge of local, central and national democratic processes.  4.3 We will organise recreational facilities and activities to improve the conditions of life for people by::  4.3.1 Providing engaging, positive, supportive volunteering projects that reduce social isolation and build community cohesion.  4.3.2 Supporting the development of greener, healthier physical environments that encourage people to walk and cycle.  4.3.3 Support communities to create communal spaces that encourage outdoor activities including gardening, cycling and walking.  | £720
