# Exercise and fitness `LE101`

Exercise and fitness is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

2,725 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.34% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(exercise class(es)?|keep ?-?(fit|in shape)|fitness|walk (and|&) cycle|aerobics?|pilates|yoga|boot camp|active travel|physical (exercise|activit(y|ies)))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 723 | 1.01%
£10k - £100k | 1,196 | 1.71%
£100k - £250k | 301 | 1.37%
£250k - £500k | 153 | 1.41%
£500k - £1m | 73 | 1.09%
£1m - £10m | 97 | 1.08%
Over £10m | 14 | 0.64%
Total | 2,557 | 1.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,113 | 1.23%
oscr | 369 | 1.49%
ccni | 243 | 3.38%
Total | 2,725 | 1.34%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE LONDON MARATHON CHARITABLE TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [283813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283813)]<br>London Marathon Foundation, the operating name of The London Marathon Charitable Trust,  aims to inspire physical activity.  It does so by awarding grants to help make available facilities and opportunities and by direct delivery to help the least active children, young people and adults from underserved communities get active. | £62,715,273
<strong>YMCA ROBIN HOOD GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [243044](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-243044)]<br>Provider of supported accommodation, health and fitness facilities and services, community facilities and work with children and young people. | £21,963,297
<strong>ACTIVE NORTHUMBERLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1153198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153198)]<br>The charity will provide sport and leisure activities, and promote health and fitness. | £20,099,898
<strong>Fife Sports And Leisure Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039464)]<br>The company's objects are:- 4.1 To advance public participation in sport, primarily within the local authority area of Fife Council ('the Operating Area'). 4.2 To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, primarily within the Operating Area, with such facilities/activities being made available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.3 To advance education, primarily within the Operating Area, in particular in relation to sports, active recreation and physical activity. 4.4 To advance health, primarily within the Operating Area, and In particular through sports, active recreation and physical activity. 4.5 To advance citizenship and/or community development, in particular, within the Operating Area. 4.6 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.7 To promote, establish, operate and/or support other similar schemes and projects which further charitable purposes | £17,980,802
<strong>KIRKLEES ACTIVE LEISURE</strong> [Charity number: [1091226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091226)]<br>The provision of sports and leisure facilities for the communities of Kirklees and surrounding neighbourhoods. This comprises swimming (including provision of an extensive lessons programme), fitness suites, keep fit classes, a wide range of sports hall activities, indoor/outdoor tennis, outdoor activities (including football, hockey, etc.), indoor climbing, indoor bowls and track & field events. | £17,513,368
<strong>Paths For All Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [SC025535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC025535)]<br>The object for which the Company is established is to advance, encourage and facilitate the creation, improvement, management, promotion and use by everyone of paths and other routes on land and water for recreation, everyday journeys and physical activity. and in so doing advance health and well-being, environmental improvement, heritage, community development, sustainable transport and economic development. | £15,583,524
<strong>ACTIVE LUTON</strong> [Charity number: [1111804](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111804)]<br>Operation of sports facilities, development of sport in the community and assisting with the delivery of sport as part of the school curriculum. Also promoting the value of sport & physical activity in addressing the wider agendas of health improvement, lifelong learning & community well-being.Operates Library services. | £15,212,505
<strong>East Renfrewshire Culture & Leisure Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC045726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045726)]<br>2.1 The Company will promote, advance and further Charitable Purposes and activities through the provision of services which enhance and contribute to the health, fitness and personal development and wellbeing of the residents of East Renfrewshire (and beyond) including, but not limited to, educational, sporting, culture and heritage based community activities. | £13,009,000
<strong>YMCA TRINITY GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1069810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069810)]<br>The YMCA works to enable young people to grow to their full potential by participating in a supportive and inclusive community through its housing, youth work, health and fitness and other programmes.The main group who benefit are those in the age range 8 to 28 through a variety ofprogrammes from short duration specialist interventions to supported housing offered over a number of years. | £12,804,576
<strong>WORLD CANCER RESEARCH FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1000739](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1000739)]<br>To raise awareness that the risk of cancer is reduced by healthy food and nutrition, physical activity and weight management.To fund cutting-edge research on how the foods we eat, the amount of physical activity we do and our body weight impact our cancer risk so that our diet and health recommendations for reducing the risk of cancer are based on current science. | £12,679,739


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>DUNSVILLE COMMUNITY CENTRE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [500856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500856)]<br>Hire of hall to the general public and local councils. Monday sequence dance, Monday walkers, S Teale School of Dance, over 60's club, craft club, yoga, taekwondo, drainage board meetings, women's institute, computer club, keep fit, polling station.Reduce social isolation in the community, hold a Christmas party for over 65 and other community events. | £21,742
<strong>BARNSLEY LONG TERM EXERCISE HEART SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1164259](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164259)]<br>Provision of a fitness Centre for people with cardiovascular and other health problems.  To enable individuals to regain independence by exercising in a secure, safe and supervised environment. | £61,938
<strong>HANNAHSTOWN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [NI102820](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102820)]<br>The provision of the Hannahstown Centre for various groups and organisations, eg Bowling Club Seniors group Father/Mother and Toddlers Gymnastics Art group, Heritage and Culture, Pilates, Ju-Jitsu, Yoga Community meetings, Folk Group | £63,273
<strong>VILLAGE HALL IPSDEN</strong> [Charity number: [304321](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-304321)]<br>Provides indoor and outdoor facilities for meetings of charitable and other groups taking part in organised art, physical fitness, educational, and recreational activities. | £6,278
<strong>Pillar of Hope</strong> [Charity number: [SC052720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052720)]<br>4 The organization's purposes are: The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages by 4.1 The advancement of promotion of public health of those in need due to age, ill-health, ill health-related disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages. By continuing to create programmes that increase disease awareness, improve health literacy, and empower patients to better manage their health. Our work is delivered through sustainable healthcare awareness programs that are built upon the principles of health equity, transparency, and partnership, working with other non-profit organizations, associations, and societies from around Scotland.   4.1.1 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages as a result of being disadvantaged more than others through the provision of practical assistance or support for vulnerable elderly people facing isolation and loneliness due to medical challenges such as Diabetes, and mental health Through providing befriending services as well as signpost our service users to advice helplines, condition specialists, information resources, courses to help them manage their condition, support groups and online forums, practical aids or just someone to talk to. in Scotland and overseas to reduce or eliminate the disadvantages.  4.1.2 The advancement of community development through supporting disadvantaged and vulnerable persons by providing friendship and practical advice, supporting older people to transform their lives, through one-to-one support, well-being courses, community groups, and supported physical activity, to help them make new friends regardless of challenges faced. This will encourage them to come out and socialize with each other while overcoming barriers to actively participate and promote resilience and positive well-being.  . 4.1 Advancement of education by providing information, training, guidance, and support services through hosting events, including in partnership with other organizations, in order to 4.1.1 promote a better understanding of the importance of leading healthy lifestyles to prevent their health conditions deteriorate. Become more informed about one's health complications, and management strategies 4.1.2 create better awareness and understanding of their social and health care rights, and combat prejudice towards individuals with such experience 4.1.3 promote social inclusion for the benefit of adults with long-term illness and prevent them from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those that are socially excluded and assisting them to integrate into society.  4.1.4 Promote maintaining manageable health that will not deteriorate very fast into crisis and be able to live on his or her own in the community. When this happens, they end up in the hospital or nursing care home or even die.  4.1.5 provide public health management information and enlightenment to many vulnerable older people with health issues in Scotland and overseas. The lack of opportunities to access regular social and health management information is fast becoming a crisis in Scotland and worst in Africa. It is dooming a generation of elderly people especially sick older people to a life of misery, uncertainty, agony, and hopelessness. | £23,965
<strong>Prostate Pedallers</strong> [Charity number: [1186469](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186469)]<br>Off road and on road cycling as a means of improving physical fitness, improving quality of life and providing greater peace of mind through the sharing of experiences of prostate cancer with fellow sufferers. | £1,251
<strong>ROYAL ARMOURED CORPS SADDLE CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1163302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163302)]<br>Promotion of the efficiency of the armed forces by increasing physical fitness and robustness of members of the service by providing equestrian facilities, equipment, training and competition.Promotion of community participation in healthy recreation by providing equitation facilities and competition.To improve the quality of life of people with disabilities by providing equitation facilities | £587,385
<strong>HOLLAND HOUSE CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1179244](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179244)]<br>Holland House is a Christian Centre with a beautiful chapel.  It provides residential accommodation with excellent food and facilities,  for courses and retreats for groups or individuals. It strongly supports and welcomes Interfaith Groups, Charitable Groups, schools (eg headteachers forums),  Wellbeing in the form yoga, mediation, spiritual direction, and music and art groups. | £624,942
<strong>Corkley Development Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI101457](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101457)]<br>Corkley Development Association organises and facilitates, classes training, keep fit, sporting activities, social events specifically for senior citizens and young people, intergenerational events. | £1,547
<strong>QUEENS ROAD CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1177869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177869)]<br> A wide range of activites are available and suitable to this age group eg, social events, day and evenings out, crafts, snooker, Gardening, daily luncheon club, quizes, seated keep fit,  We are always  open  to and willing to try new activies | £18,113
