# Hobbies `LE103`

Hobbies is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Leisure](LE.md) category.

456 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.22% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(aviation|aeroplanes?|planes?|flying|gliding|astronomy|atronomical|model railway|hobbies|craft skills)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 164 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 152 | 0.22%
£100k - £250k | 43 | 0.19%
£250k - £500k | 23 | 0.21%
£1m - £10m | 11 | 0.12%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.15%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.22%
Total | 408 | 0.21%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 378 | 0.22%
oscr | 60 | 0.24%
ccni | 18 | 0.25%
Total | 456 | 0.22%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MISSION AVIATION FELLOWSHIP INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1058226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058226)]<br>MAF International uses light aircraft transform the lives of some of the world's most isolated people in need. Working in partnership with hundreds of other Christian and humanitarian organisations, MAF International delivers help, hope and healing to remote and inaccessible communities in the developing world. | £44,840,268
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1176054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176054)]<br>The Mission of the Royal Air Force Charitable Trust is to Promote the RAF and Inspire young people and RAF personnel to fulfil their potential in air, space and technology . This is achieved through the staging of the Royal International Air Tattoo annually and by the awarding of grants for flying scholarships and national STEM initiatives which are delivered throughout the year. | £18,088,051
<strong>MISSION AVIATION FELLOWSHIP UK</strong> [Charity number: [1064598](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064598)]<br>MAF uses light aircraft to transform the lives of some of the world's most isolated people in need. Working in partnership with hundreds of other Christian and humanitarian organisations, MAF delivers help, hope and healing to remote and inaccessible communities in the developing world.   MAF UK is the largest provider of resources for MAF International's work within the MAF global partnership. | £17,150,000
<strong>Mission Aviation Fellowship UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039107](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039107)]<br>To advance the Christian faith by such means as the Charity shall determine from time to time but without prejudice to , the generality of the foregoing by supporting and encouraging the work of mission aviation, churches, missions and relief and development agencies so  that the love of Christ is shared by word and practical means. | £17,150,000
<strong>THE LEONARDO TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1086045](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086045)]<br>Support for full time carers and those being cared for.Contributions towards care sitting services.Funding holidays for carersAssisting finance in relaxation or training courses or perhaps hobbies or activitiesCreative thinking towards financial assistance for carersWe cannot supply care staff directEmergency funding/grants for carers | £10,802,000
<strong>THE RICHARD ORMONDE SHUTTLEWORTH REMEMBRANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [307534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307534)]<br>Promotion of education and training in the science, practice and history of aviation and automotive transportandPromotion of education and training in the science and practice of agriculture, food production and management of rural resources by making arrangements for the provision and conduct of a college. | £6,084,000
<strong>BROOKLANDS MUSEUM TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [296661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296661)]<br>The preservation of the motoring and aviation heritages of Brooklands and environs; using that heritage to inspire future generations through the Museum's education service; and the provision of a world class tourist attraction whose popularity will attract visitor revenues to pay for the preservation and education. | £5,740,479
<strong>ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [226545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226545)]<br>The Society promotes the study of astronomy and geophysics. | £5,156,988
<strong>The Armagh Observatory and Planetarium</strong> [Charity number: [NI103948](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103948)]<br>Armagh Observatory and Planetarium undertakes astronomical research and undertakes public outreach and education in science. The organisation undertakes original research of a world-class academic standard that broadens and expands our understanding of astronomy and related sciences. Secondary functions include the organisation’s responsibilities to (i) promote, preserve and widen access to the heritage of astronomy at Armagh and (ii) to maintain the continuity and precision of the unique 220-year long meteorological record at Armagh. Armagh Observatory and Planetarium pursues a vibrant programme of science in the community in support of the Northern Ireland Executive’s Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Strategy and the strategic goals of the Department for Communities. The organisation disseminates knowledge and promotes the public understanding of astronomy and science through its programme of educational services for schools and the wider public. Staff deliver interactive presentations using the latest projection and information technology to all age groups and abilities on a wide range of astronomical and scientific topics, including meteorite impacts, the planets, current astronomical phenomena and Earth sciences. A wide range of community service programmes are conducted in astronomy and related sciences and the organisation represents Northern Ireland on the national and international stage. Taken together, these activities feed into many areas of government policy, particularly those directed towards improving the economy, education and lifelong learning, and the attractiveness of Northern Ireland to national and international visitors. The Planetarium, also through the large number of visitors coming through its doors, plays an important role in promoting and enhancing tourism within Armagh City and District, and is an attraction of regional significance in Northern Ireland. | £3,546,337
<strong>BRISTOL AERO COLLECTION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1010632](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1010632)]<br>Operation of a Museum available to the public for the acquisition, preservation, restoration and display of the products of the Bristol aviation manufacturing organisations and their related artefacts.Provision of a research facility of exhibits and related documentation available to the public.Operation of the Concorde at Filton public attraction for hosting visitors to Concorde 216. | £2,525,120


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Glenrothes Model Railway Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC046477](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046477)]<br>2. Objectives: The advancement of education, the arts, heritage, culture or science with the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. | £7,140
<strong>SOUTH WALES AVIATION MUSEUM</strong> [Charity number: [1203288](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1203288)]<br>To establish and maintain an aviation museum with aircraft and memorabilia on display for the benefit of the public.To establish a conservation centre for repairs on aircraft parts and memorabilia for the benefit of the general public.To promote the aviation industry to children of a school leaving age by offering the practical experience required for a future career in the aviation industry. | £88,464
<strong>UK ASTRONOMY</strong> [Charity number: [1190172](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190172)]<br>To advance education for the benefit of the public in the theory and practice of astronomy by providing and assisting in the provision of interactive talks, workshops and events and in the provision of advice, guidance and assistance in the practice of astronomy. | £13,445
<strong>DARTMOOR SKIES</strong> [Charity number: [1171207](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171207)]<br>Holds public events such as talks and observing sessions; provides access to equipment such as telescopes and binoculars so that the public can enjoy views of planets, stars, galaxies and other objects in space for themselves; provides information and advise that enables the public to explore the night sky for themselves and provides facilities and access to open spaces for astronomy. | £1,249
<strong>New Life Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042925)]<br>To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. To provide facilities in the interest of social welfare, for recreation and other leisure time occupation with the object of improving the conditions of life of those who have need of such facilities by reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disability, poverty or social and economic circumstances. To advance education, particularly in relation to, gardening, food production, healthy eating, food preparation, craft skills and matters relating to the environment and sustainability. To advance health through encouraging people to become involved in exercise by participating in environmental improvement projects, gardening and similar activities and by promoting healthy eating, healthy food production and healthy lifestyles. To relieve poverty among the residents of the areas in which it operates by promoting environmentally, economically and socially sustainable practices which assist people of limited means to reduce expenditure on energy, food and other necessities. To advance citizenship and community development (including the promotion of volunteering and the promotion of the voluntary sector) by involving people who might otherwise be socially excluded from these and other appropriate activities. | £6,654
<strong>THE AIR-BRITAIN TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1161305](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161305)]<br>Promote the history of aviation & improve public awareness, knowledge & appreciation of aviation, aeronautical literature & history.Acquire & maintain archive, to identify, preserve and produce materials which record, to promote the history of aviation.Publish journals, books & information on aviation, provide grants & financial assistance to students to promote aviation history. | £11,280
<strong>HOLCOMBE VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [300813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-300813)]<br>A second hall was built in 2007 - access for disabled was improved. Play area been re located to a safer sight.  Educational , fitness and hobbies groups provide varied classes for locals, the committee have funds for improvements and accommodation has been virtually doubled. Holcombe is a very popular venue between Exeter and Torbay. | £32,857
<strong>Milford Buildings Preservation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI101166](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101166)]<br>Milford Buildings Preservation Trust for the benefit of the nation works to protect promote and preserve and restore Milford House Co. Armagh and the built and natural heritage of the Milford area of Co. Armagh. The owns the Milford House collections which is a historic house collection and an Accredited museum. This preserves the collections from Milford House Co. Armagh, organises house tours, events, lectures and publications to promote, encourage and educate the public in the historic, architectural importance of Milford House Co. Armagh and the Milford area of Co. Armagh. These collections are held in Trust for the benefit of society. It raises awareness of the buildings at risk, in need of restoration and regeneration working with the community and local and national government. To protect buildings of historic and architectural interest by encouraging them to be made listed buildings and monuments. This benefits the public through pride of place, saving communities which would be destroyed or negatively altered through loss of built and natural heritage and helping to regenerate the local community through heritage and tourism. Teaches traditional building and craft skills which might otherwise be lost. | £11,963
<strong>Kilbarchan Agricultural Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC051311](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051311)]<br>The organisation's purposes are the advancement of education, citizenship and community development. Advancement of the arts, heritage, culture, science and environmental protection improvement by providing education in and promotion of agriculture, horticulture and craft skills to all ages in the community. To bring the local and rural communities together by a range of cultural and historical events including the annual Kilbarchan Show. | £11,390
<strong>RUSKINGTON VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [1041699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041699)]<br>THE HALL IS HIRED BY VARIOUS GROUPS INCLUDING PLAYSCHOOL, BOWLS CLUB, ,SLIMMING CLUB, BINGO, MODEL RAILWAY CLUB AND IS WELL SUPPORTED BY THE COMMUNITY. IT IS ALSO FOR HIRE TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC  FOR PARTY CELEBRATIONS, MEETINGS,  PRIVATE & PROMOTIONAL FUNCTIONS. BLOOD DONOR SESSIONS ARE HELD  ON A REGULAR BASIS. | £26,098
