# Professions `PR`

Professions is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Professions](/data/ukcat/PR) category.

1,314 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.65% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`None`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 520 | 0.65%
£10k - £100k | 424 | 0.62%
£100k - £250k | 136 | 0.73%
£250k - £500k | 54 | 0.61%
£500k - £1m | 37 | 0.68%
£1m - £10m | 71 | 0.94%
Over £10m | 32 | 1.81%
Total | 1,274 | 0.67%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,126 | 0.66%
oscr | 137 | 0.54%
ccni | 51 | 0.78%
Total | 1,314 | 0.65%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £134,822,897
<strong>NURSING AND MIDWIFERY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1091434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091434)]<br>The NMC is the independent regulator for nurses and midwives in the UK. Our primary purpose is to protect patients and the public through effective and proportionate regulation of nurses and midwives. We set and promote standards of education and practice, maintain a register of those who meet these standards, and take action when a nurse's or midwife's fitness to practise is called into question. | £92,005,000
<strong>Nursing And Midwifery Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC038362](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038362)]<br>(2) The principal functions of the Council shall be to establish from time to time standards of education, training, conduct and performance for nurses and midwives and to ensure the maintenance of those standards. (4) The main objective of the Council in exercising its functions shall be to safeguard the health and well-being of persons using or needing the services of registrants. | £92,005,000
<strong>THE LONDON DIOCESAN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [241083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-241083)]<br>The principal activity of the London Diocesan Fund is to serve and support the parishes and people within the Diocese of London in their mission of proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. It does this operationally through the payment and housing of parish clergy and chaplaincies and support to their ministry. | £44,400,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MARSDEN CANCER CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1095197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095197)]<br>The Charity's objects are to raise money solely to allow The Royal Marsden Foundation Trust to fund state-of-the-art equipment and groundbreaking research, create the best patient environments, and ensure its nurses, doctors and research teams can provide the very best care and develop life-saving treatments which are used here in the UK and around the world. | £32,912,000
<strong>LIVERPOOL ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHDIOCESAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [232709](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232709)]<br>To provide support to the clergy in training, ministry and retirementTo support pastoral work in parishes and local communitiesTo support and direct lifelong Christian education in parishes and schoolsTo preserve and invest in the property infrastructure of the Archdiocese and parishes, facilitating worship and enabling the charitable work of the Church to take place | £31,726,358
<strong>Society of Jesus Trust of 1929 for Roman Catholic Purposes</strong> [Charity number: [SC040490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040490)]<br>The provision maintenance and upkeep of churches public chapels and presbyteries belonging to or connected with the Roman Catholic Church in Great Britain: The provision maintenance and carrying on of the religious services of the said Church in such churches and public chapels or others of a like character:The provision maintenance and upkeep of houses of Study Halls and Colleges for the education and training of Priests and persons desirous of becoming Priests of the said Church: The maintenance and support of and the provision of medical and surgical aid for infirm and aged Priests and clerics of the same Church and the burial of deceased Priests and Clerics of the same Church: The provision of necessary holidays and rest of Priests and Clerics of the said Church engaged in active work for the purposes thereof but so that contributions made by the Trustees under this and the preceding sub-clause shall be made only to or in respect of persons whose own means (if any) are in the opinion of the Trustees inadequate for such purposes: The relief of poor persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion in Great Britain or nearly related to Priests or Clerics of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Schools and Colleges for the general education both religious and secular or religious or secular of children and young persons members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Homes for infirm and aged Priests and Clerics of the said Church being in the opinion of the Trustees without adequate means of support and of Almshouses for infirm and aged poor persons being, members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Rest and Retreat house for the instructing in the Doctrines of the Roman Catholic Religion of members of the said Church MAXIUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY. | £29,129,000
<strong>THE ST ALBANS DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [248887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-248887)]<br>To promote, aid and further the work of the Church of England in the St Albans Diocese.Under Living Gods Love, which was launched in January 2011, the St Albans DBF; deploys the clergy, pays stipends and provides housing for stipendiary clergy; recruits and trains the clergy and readers; offers advice on places of worship; promotes parochial stewardship; develops youth work; promotes RE. | £25,738,000
<strong>THE SOUTH LONDON CHURCH FUND AND SOUTHWARK DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249678)]<br>Resourcing the Ministry and Mission in every parish   Managing the number of clergy in post against budget, and collecting Fairer Shares contributionsProviding clergy training, housing, stipends, pension supporting parish based ministryContributing to national church institutionsProviding education & social outreach fundingProviding Diocesan Retreat House | £25,278,000
<strong>THE CHELMSFORD DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249505](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249505)]<br>1. Mission & Ministry in the Parishes - paying clergy stipends incl pension contribs, providing & maintaining houses for clergy & training clergy & other parish officers.2. Education - providing support for head teachers & governors, facilitating capital expenditure on schools & sponsoring certain schools with Academy status.3.Contributions to NCIs4. Provision of the Diocesan Retreat House | £24,113,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CORNWALL RETIRED CLERGY, WIDOWS OF THE CLERGY AND THEIR DEPENDANTS FUND</strong> [Charity number: [289675](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289675)]<br>Providing grants to any widow, widower, former spouse, separated spouse or a child of a deceased member of the clergy in the Diocese of Truro who are in need by reason of poverty. | £17,501
<strong>SEVEN SISTERS MINERS' WELFARE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [524159](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-524159)]<br>The activities of the charity are the provision of facilities for education, indoor & outdoor recreation and social intercourse for the benefit, advantage & welfare in the manner appearing in the trust deed of inhabitants of the local community. | £17
<strong>THE BRITISH ACADEMY OF WESTERN MEDICAL ACUPUNCTURE</strong> [Charity number: [326088](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-326088)]<br>We teach Western Medical Acupuncture to doctors, nurses and physiotherapists. We look to businesses and other donors to assist by paying the fees of nurses who are keen to expand their knowledge for the good of sick patients. Some of our nurses use acupuncture in the NHS and help patients by easing the symptoms of illness and can clear the patients entirely from the condition they present with. | £24,024
<strong>PENNEFATHER MEMORIAL HALL</strong> [Charity number: [251573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-251573)]<br>The ownership of the Pennefather Memorial Hall from which it receives income from lettings to pay for the running costs of the property. The trust also owns a property at 8 Wentworth Road, Barnet, Herts which provides living accommodation for the assistant vicar / curate of Christ Church Barnet | £13,986
<strong>SHEERWATER CHURCHES LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [271109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-271109)]<br>Ownership and maintenance of the Anglican/Methodist Shared Church of St Michael, Sheerwater, Woking, Surrey and its clergy house. | 
<strong>SIR THOMAS ROWE'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [204799](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-204799)]<br>The Charity is bound by the scheme whereby one-tenth of the net income is provided to the Vicar of Cirencester by way of a contribution for acquisition of books and periodicals required by him in undertaking his religious work and the remaining nine-tenths is applied at the trustees' discretion to eligible persons under the age of 25 years who were born or resident in the vicinity of Cirencester. | £389
<strong>Friends of Emanuel Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC041216](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041216)]<br>The primary objective of FEH is to support Hospice Care in, Romania. In furtherance of this they will: ? Promote spiritual and holistic care through Christian principles and ethics, without limitations of sex, race, age or religion, of persons in, Romania, suffering from advanced cancer or other life threatening illness whether in hospitals, nursing homes, hospices, clinics or their own homes and to provide medical, nursing and other treatments and attention according to their needs, together with guidance and assistance for those caring for them. ? To promote and encourage research into the care and treatment of persons in, Romania suffering from advanced cancer or other life threatening illnesses, to make publicly available the results of such research and to promote, encourage and assist in the teaching and training of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, psychologists and other persons engaged in the care of such persons. ? To relieve persons in Romania suffering from conditions of severe or prolonged shock or depression arising from bereavement by the provision of counselling for the family, relatives and friends of those who have died after suffering from terminal illness. ? To promote and encourage the provision of care by all appropriate institutions and organisations in Romania and other countries in central and eastern Europe for persons suffering from advanced cancer or other life threatening illness and for persons suffering from  conditions of severe or prolonged shock or depression arising from bereavement. | £7,472
<strong>Our Lady Of Bethlehem Abbey Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI105693](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105693)]<br>The Cistercian monks of Our Lady of Bethlehem Abbey lead a monastic way of life in solitude and silence, in prayer and penitence as defined in the Constitutions. They seek God and follow Christ under a rule and an abbot in a stable community sharing everything in common. The community celebrate two Masses each day. These are attended by the public, some of whom have an active role in the celebration (Mass Servers, Readers, Ministers of the Eucharist). On occasions we do provide cover for local parish priests. Currently confessions are heard by the priests of the community six days each week. There is a special Confessional Chapel for this which is always open to the public. On all days, even outside of the normal hours, people can go to Reception and ask to see a priest for confession should none be on duty. In our Guesthouse at least one member of the community is on duty seven days a week. Visitors can simply walk in and ask to speak to a monk. While the hearing of confessions is certainly part of the work in the Guesthouse, it forms only the smaller part of it. The visitors who come do so for mostly pastoral reasons: to talk about their personal or family problems or to ask for prayers, blessings etc. The vast majority seek an attentive and compassionate ear - someone who will listen to them in confidence. It is a unique, free service, and open-to-all. Our Guesthouse is also residential. Anyone of good will who is over eighteen can come and avail of our hospitality. Generally, all who come do so for some spiritual purpose. The Guesthouse also hosts groups, again usually of a religious nature. Its conference room is used by the public at least once a week. We take part in an annual Heritage Open Day when guided tours of the whole monastery are offered to individuals or public groups. | 
<strong>RUMBLES CATERING PROJECT LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1098404](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098404)]<br>Training adults with learning disabilities in a realistic working environment to gain qualifications in catering. The Charity runs a country park caf+® at Vicar Water in Clipstone, that offer the trainees the opportunity to practice their skills and raise funds for the charity. | £164,599
<strong>NORTON-IN-THE-MOORS MINERS WELFARE RECREATION GROUND AND INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [522705](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-522705)]<br>Norton-in-the-Moors Miners Welfare provides facilities and open space for community groups from a wide catchment area within Stoke on Trent. Based in Smallthorne and working in co-operation with local stakeholders such as the City Council, the Charity provides extensive support for people of all ages with particular emphasis on the young and the elderly. | £67,850
