# Clergy `PR101`

Clergy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Professions](/data/ukcat/PR) category.

544 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.27% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(priests|clergy|vicars?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 214 | 0.26%
£10k - £100k | 147 | 0.23%
£100k - £250k | 73 | 0.38%
£250k - £500k | 35 | 0.39%
£1m - £10m | 23 | 0.29%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.30%
Over £10m | 17 | 0.92%
Total | 526 | 0.27%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 496 | 0.29%
ccni | 25 | 0.35%
oscr | 23 | 0.09%
Total | 544 | 0.27%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £148,127,625
<strong>THE LONDON DIOCESAN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [241083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-241083)]<br>The principal activity of the London Diocesan Fund is to serve and support the parishes and people within the Diocese of London in their mission of proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. It does this operationally through the payment and housing of parish clergy and chaplaincies and support to their ministry. | £47,800,000
<strong>THE SOUTH LONDON CHURCH FUND AND SOUTHWARK DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249678)]<br>Resourcing the Ministry and Mission in every parish   Managing the number of clergy in post against budget, and collecting Fairer Shares contributionsProviding clergy training, housing, stipends, pension supporting parish based ministryContributing to national church institutionsProviding education & social outreach fundingProviding Diocesan Retreat House | £29,011,000
<strong>THE ST ALBANS DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [248887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-248887)]<br>To promote, aid and further the work of the Church of England in the St Albans Diocese.Under Living Gods Love, which was launched in January 2011, the St Albans DBF; deploys the clergy, pays stipends and provides housing for stipendiary clergy; recruits and trains the clergy and readers; offers advice on places of worship; promotes parochial stewardship; develops youth work; promotes RE. | £25,312,000
<strong>Society of Jesus Trust of 1929 for Roman Catholic Purposes</strong> [Charity number: [SC040490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040490)]<br>The provision maintenance and upkeep of churches public chapels and presbyteries belonging to or connected with the Roman Catholic Church in Great Britain: The provision maintenance and carrying on of the religious services of the said Church in such churches and public chapels or others of a like character:The provision maintenance and upkeep of houses of Study Halls and Colleges for the education and training of Priests and persons desirous of becoming Priests of the said Church: The maintenance and support of and the provision of medical and surgical aid for infirm and aged Priests and clerics of the same Church and the burial of deceased Priests and Clerics of the same Church: The provision of necessary holidays and rest of Priests and Clerics of the said Church engaged in active work for the purposes thereof but so that contributions made by the Trustees under this and the preceding sub-clause shall be made only to or in respect of persons whose own means (if any) are in the opinion of the Trustees inadequate for such purposes: The relief of poor persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion in Great Britain or nearly related to Priests or Clerics of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Schools and Colleges for the general education both religious and secular or religious or secular of children and young persons members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Homes for infirm and aged Priests and Clerics of the said Church being in the opinion of the Trustees without adequate means of support and of Almshouses for infirm and aged poor persons being, members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Rest and Retreat house for the instructing in the Doctrines of the Roman Catholic Religion of members of the said Church MAXIUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY. | £25,158,000
<strong>Down And Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £24,914,000
<strong>THE CHELMSFORD DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249505](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249505)]<br>1. Mission & Ministry in the Parishes - paying clergy stipends incl pension contribs, providing & maintaining houses for clergy & training clergy & other parish officers.2. Education - providing support for head teachers & governors, facilitating capital expenditure on schools & sponsoring certain schools with Academy status.3.Contributions to NCIs4. Provision of the Diocesan Retreat House | £24,842,000
<strong>LIVERPOOL ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHDIOCESAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [232709](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232709)]<br>To provide support to the clergy in training, ministry and retirementTo support pastoral work in parishes and local communitiesTo support and direct lifelong Christian education in parishes and schoolsTo preserve and invest in the property infrastructure of the Archdiocese and parishes, facilitating worship and enabling the charitable work of the Church to take place | £20,412,569
<strong>THE SAINT JOHN'S SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [312064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312064)]<br>To advance the education of boys and girls from the ages of 11 to 18. The provision of subsidised education for Foundationers (being children of Church of England or Church of Wales clergy of limited means). The provision of means-tested bursaries to pupils whose families would not otherwise be able to afford the full fees and thereby widen access to the education provided by the School. | £18,630,657
<strong>BIRMINGHAM DIOCESAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [234216](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234216)]<br>Provision of religious services, maintenance of church, school and related property. Maintenance and support of clergy. Education.  Relief of sick and poor catholics and other associated works of charity. | £18,295,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE TERRYS CROSS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1011373](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1011373)]<br>Provision of Housing Accomodation and personal care for the Elderly.  Limited by Will to Church of England Clergy, dependants,missionaries and lay-workers | £370,976
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST JAMES, TUNBRIDGE WELLS</strong> [Charity number: [1136988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1136988)]<br>The members of the PCC are the Trustees of the charity and as a body are responsible for supporting the clergy in promoting the mission of the Church in the parish,  evangelistic, pastoral, liturgical, social and ecumenical.  It also carries the responsibility for maintaining the building of St James Church and the other property of the charity. | £383,805
<strong>Ballymena Church Members Forum (Bcmf)</strong> [Charity number: [NI107448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107448)]<br>Annual weekly Advent lunchtime Reflections held respectively in Catholic, Church of Ireland, Methodist and Presbyterian churches and led by their clergy. Open invitation on BCMF Facebook, churches Bulletins and local press. Simple hospitality provided by host church after each service. Annual Day Retreat usually led by member of local clergy and held in Christian Retreat/Conference Centre. Transport provided. Open Invitation. Occasional Day Visits to other faith groups/centres organised jointly with Interethnic Forum (IEF). Transport provided. Open invitation. BCMF promotes and supports Annual Good Friday Walk of Witness in Ballymena arranged by Clergy Fraternal. Healing Services led by International Divine Healing Ministries or non-denominational speaker These have been held in Catholic, Church of Ireland and Methodist churches according to availability. Open invitation. Social evenings. Occasional informal evenings to bring Forum members, friends and other organisations together. 'Conversations' involving high profile religious and civic representatives on issues of faith, politics and social concerns e.g. Baroness May Blood with Baroness Nuala O'Loan; Father Martin Magill with Reverend Steve Stockman; Christian/Jewish/Muslim leaders. Discussion, light refreshments. Neutral venues. Open Invitation. Talks series e.g. 'Forgiveness', 'Common Good' with facilitated discussion. Intentional engagement with local elected representatives, MLAs and MP for Ballymena area by meeting with individuals and cross-party small groups. Ongoing. Other joint events with IEF e,g International Café. Open invitation. Proposed march 2020 Festival: Community/Church groups Art Project, panel discussion, musical evening, town centre prayer walk. | 
<strong>THE CHARITY OF LOUISA FRANCES KATHERINE BISHOP FOR DIVINE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [205509](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205509)]<br>Has the responsibility of cooperating with the Vicar in promoting in the parish the whole mission of the Church, pastoral, evangelistic, social and ecumenical. Has maintenance responsibilities for the Church. When planning activities for the year, the incumbent and the PCC have considered the guidance on public benefit, in particular specific guidance on charities for the advancement of religion. | £1,033
<strong>SWANSEA AND BRECON DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249810)]<br>To support the Ministry and Mission of the Church in Wales, particularly in the Diocese of Swansea and Brecon, as carried out through its Bishop, Clergy and Laity. | £3,691,323
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST ANNE, BAGSHOT, SURREY</strong> [Charity number: [1171379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171379)]<br>St Anne's provides a range of opportunities to the local community for Christian worship and the development of their Christian faith.  Clergy and church members provide pastoral support to the local population and assist local community organisations through the use of the church and church centre and by managing the operation of the Parish Hall. | £116,911
<strong>THE BAIRD MEMORIAL HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [278020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278020)]<br>Principal Activity - The principal activity is the management of the seven almshouses in Balaams Lane, Southgate - the site manager occupying one unit.Management - Is vested in a Board of Trustees, the Vicars of Christ Church, Southgate and of St Andrews Church, Southgate are ex-officio Trustees. | £46,231
<strong>TYNDALE MEMORIAL TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [221126](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221126)]<br>To provide grants and loans to further the objects and work of the Free Church of England and to provide pensions, support and benefit generally for the Bishops and Clergy and their dependants. | £7,737
<strong>ST LUKE'S CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1111058](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111058)]<br>The centre offers education and wellness training for priests and religous throughout the UK and Ireland.The centre provides an initial assessment and evaluation of priests and religous men and women, who find themselves in need of psychological or spiritual care, and offers assessment of candidates for the priesthood and religous life, with the aim of preventing difficulties before they occur. | £297,782
<strong>CARLISLE DIOCESE RETIRED CLERGY AND DEPENDANTS FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1098982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098982)]<br>The Retired Clergy and Dependants Fund provides for the relief of poverty by assisting retired Church of England clergy, licensed lay workers or deserted spouses of clergy who reside or served in the Diocese of Carlisle and their dependants.  It makes grants to assist with the costs of moving when clergy retire and provides support throughout the year but in particular at Christmas. | £49,922
