# Emergency service workers `PR102`

Emergency service workers is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Professions](PR.md) category.

64 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.03% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(police officers?|paramedic(s)?|ambulance workers|fire( |-)+(fighters?|m[ae]n|wom[ae]n))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 20 | 0.03%
£10k - £100k | 19 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 7 | 0.03%
£250k - £500k | 3 | 0.03%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.09%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 60 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 51 | 0.03%
oscr | 10 | 0.04%
ccni | 3 | 0.04%
Total | 64 | 0.03%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NORTH WEST AIR AMBULANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1075641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1075641)]<br>The North West Air Ambulance Charity helicopters and HEMS (Helicopter Emergency Medical Service) response vehicles operate 365 days a year, with doctors and HEMS paramedics on board providing enhanced pre-hospital care and hospital transfers to patients across the entire North West. The charity is dedicated to the conservation and preservation of life, through services of an air ambulance. | £14,246,459
<strong>FIRE FIGHTERS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1093387](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093387)]<br>The Charity provides services that enhance the quality of life of the fire services community through a range of support to meet their mental, physical and social needs. | £9,645,327
<strong>The Fire Fighters Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC040096](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040096)]<br>1.1 The Objects of the Charity are such charitable purposes as the Trustees shall in their absolute discretion determine (including, without limitation, the relief of poverty. the advancement of health or the saving of lives) for those persons having a direct or indirect association with the fir services community ('the beneficiary class') as defined in the Charity's rules and  1.2 the relief of Burns survivors by yhe provision only of rehabilitation, and advisory services as the Trustees shall in their absolute discrection determine | £9,645,327
<strong>THE POLICE TREATMENT CENTRES</strong> [Charity number: [1147449](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147449)]<br>THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF ILL HEALTH, DISABILITY OR OTHER DISADVANTAGE AND THE PROMOTION OF THE EFFICIENCY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE POLICE SERVICE FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT LIMITED TO: 5.1 PROVIDE TREATMENT AND/OR FACILITIES FOR ILL OR INJURED POLICE OFFICERS TO SUPPORT THEIR RETURN TO BETTER HEALTH AND WELLBEING. | £6,809,156
<strong>The Police Treatment Centres</strong> [Charity number: [SC043396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043396)]<br>The Charity's objects are specifically restricted to the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of ill health, disability or other disadvantage and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Police Service for the public benefit in particular but not limited to: 5.1 Provide treatment and/or facilities for ill or injured police officers to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.2 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, for retired police officers and police cadets who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.3 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, in significant and unique cases to members of a policing organisation who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing.  | £6,809,156
<strong>COLLEGE OF PARAMEDICS</strong> [Charity number: [1164445](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164445)]<br>Membership organisation development of the Paramedic Profession | £2,845,226
<strong>METROPOLITAN POLICE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1125409](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125409)]<br>Provides financial assistance to serving, retired and ex Metropolitan Police Officers and their dependants in need by way of a monetary grant or interest free loan.  Also allows officers free access to Flint House, the Police Rehabilitation Centre in Goring, where necessary and supports the Metropolitan and City Police Orphans Fund | £2,250,628
<strong>Police Care UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC047767](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047767)]<br>4.1 The objects of the charity shall be restricted specifically to the promotion of the efficiency of the police force in the United Kingdom and the assistance of Beneficiaries in need including by:  4.1.1 The relief in cases of need of: 4.1 .1.1 Dependants of serving or former Police Officers who die. or have died as a result of an injury received. in the execution of duty. 4.1.1 .2 Serving or former Police Officers who are or have been incapacitated as a result of an injury received in the execution of duty or Dependants of such Police Officers. 4.1.1.3 Serving or former Police Officers who are suffering from mental ill health as a result of their work as a Police Officer or Dependants of such Police Officers. and 4.1 .1.4 Police Officers who are required to take early retirement from the police force due to medical reasons (irrespective of cause). in order to assist in their transition into alternative careers and/or retirement. 4.1 .2 In circumstances other than those described in 1.1. above: 4.1.2.1 The relief of Beneficiaries in cases of need. hardship or distress. 4.1.2.2 The relief of mental or physical sickness. disability or infirmity among Beneficiaries. 4.1.2.3 The relief of old age among Beneficiaries. 4.1 .2.4 The provision or support of facilities for sports or recreation and other forms of leisure time occupation for Beneficiaries. and 4.1.2.5 The provision of education to Beneficiaries in order to assist in their transition into alternative careers and to Dependants. | £1,534,418
<strong>THE METROPOLITAN AND CITY POLICE ORPHANS FUND</strong> [Charity number: [234787](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-234787)]<br>To providing grants to necessitous orphans of members of the Metropolitan and City Police Officers to further their educational and welfare needs. | £1,207,961
<strong>BRITISH SOCIETY FOR GYNAECOLOGICAL ENDOSCOPY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1077892](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077892)]<br>Training in Gynaecological Endoscopy, particularly with regard to the management of endometriosis and pelvic pain.  The BSGE organises meetings for Consultants, Doctors in Training and paramedics and awards appropriate Bursaries, including student bursaries for students taking the MSC in Advanced Gynaecological Endoscopy which is jointly run with the University of Surrey | £837,017


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>FIRE FIGHTERS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1093387](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093387)]<br>The Charity provides services that enhance the quality of life of the fire services community through a range of support to meet their mental, physical and social needs. | £9,645,327
<strong>Operation Florence</strong> [Charity number: [SC052385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052385)]<br>For the public benefit, to further the saving of lives throughout the United Kingdom in particular, but not exclusively, by providing: •A first response search and rescue service to those in need of rescue following accident or disaster involving bodies of water, flooding or otherwise entrapped. •A first response medical care and life saving first response medical intervention to those experiencing a medical emergency following an accident or disaster or otherwise in need of assistance. •Life-saving emergency medical transport of live human tissues, blood or medical equipment. •First Aid and First Responder training to Youth Groups. •Training, training bursaries and funded apprenticeships to those training to save lives, inclusive of those training to be first responders, ambulance technicians, paramedics, nurses and midwives. | 
<strong>THE BLUE STAR DAY</strong> [Charity number: [1196605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196605)]<br>TO ADVANCE SUCH CHARITABLE PURPOSES (ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES) AS THE TRUSTEES SEE FIT FROM TIME TO TIME, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT LIMITED TO: 1 FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, THE FURTHERANCE AND BENEFIT OF; THE RELIEF OF FINANCIAL NEED AND SUFFERING AMONG; AND THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR RECREATION AND OTHER LEISURE-TIME OCCUPATION IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE OF:(A)  THOSE WHOSE WORK WAS CRITICAL TO THE COVID-19 RESPONSE INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO:• CURRENT AND FORMER DOCTORS NURSES, MIDWIVES, PARAMEDICS, SOCIAL WORKERS, CARE WORKERS, AND OTHER FRONTLINE HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE STAFF INCLUDING VOLUNTEERS; THE SUPPORT AND SPECIALIST STAFF REQUIRED TO MAINTAIN THE UK’S HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE SECTOR; THOSE WORKING AS PART OF THE HEALTH AND SOCIAL CARE SUPPLY CHAIN, INCLUDING PRODUCERS AND DISTRIBUTORS OF MEDICINES AND MEDICAL AND PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT,• THOSE INVOLVED IN CHILDCARE, SUPPORT AND TEACHING STAFF• SOCIAL WORKERS AND SPECIALIST EDUCATION PROFESSIONALS WHO HAD TO REMAIN ACTIVE DURING THE COVID-19 RESPONSE TO DELIVER THIS APPROACH,• THOSE ESSENTIAL TO THE RUNNING OF THE JUSTICE SYSTEM,• RELIGIOUS STAFF,• CHARITIES AND WORKERS DELIVERING KEY FRONTLINE SERVICES,• THOSE RESPONSIBLE FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF THE DECEASED,• JOURNALISTS AND BROADCASTERS WHO ARE PROVIDING PUBLIC SERVICE BROADCASTING.• THOSE ADMINISTRATIVE OCCUPATIONS ESSENTIAL TO THE EFFECTIVE DELIVERY OF THE COVID-19 RESPONSE OR DELIVERING ESSENTIAL PUBLIC SERVICES, SUCH AS THE PAYMENT OF BENEFITS, INCLUDING IN GOVERNMENT AGENCIES AND ARMS LENGTH BODIES• THOSE INVOLVED IN FOOD, PRODUCTION, PROCESSING, DISTRIBUTION, SALE AND DELIVERY, AS WELL AS THOSE ESSENTIAL TO THE PROVISION OF OTHER KEY GOODS (FOR EXAMPLE HYGIENIC AND VETERINARY MEDICINES). • THOSE INVOLVED IN PUBLIC SAFETY AND NATIONAL SECURITY INCLUDING POLICE AND SUPPORT STAFF, MINISTRY OF DEFENCE CIVILIANS, CONTRACTOR AND ARMED FORCES PERSONNEL, FIRE AND RESCUE SERVICE EMPLOYEES (INCLUDING SUPPORT STAFF), NATIONAL CRIME AGENCY STAFF, THOSE MAINTAINING BORDER SECURITY, PRISON AND PROBATION STAFF AND OTHER NATIONAL SECURITY ROLES, INCLUDING THOSE OVERSEAS.(B)  THOSE WHO CONTRACTED COVID 19 OR THE FAMILIES OF THOSE WHO HAVE DIED FROM COVID 19 RELATED CAUSES. BY MAKING GRANTS AND AWARDS (OR OTHER MEANS DEEMED SUITABLE) FOR PERSONS, BODIES AND ORGANISATIONS IN NEED. | 
<strong>THE NORFOLK ACCIDENT RESCUE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [261666](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261666)]<br>Providing immediate care to accident victims. All active members are qualified general practitioners or paramedics. Respond only to 999 calls for which they receive no form of renumeration whatsoever. Our charity provides for their clothing, equipment and training up to the required NHS standard. | £167,278
<strong>SOUTH WEST POLICE COMPASSIONATE FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1191281](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191281)]<br>Providing benefits to serving/retired police officers and their dependants in charitable need | £262,218
<strong>LORD HYLTON'S FUND FOR THE AVON AND SOMERSET CONSTABULARY</strong> [Charity number: [239459](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-239459)]<br>We provide awards (non financial) to police officers who actions are above and beyond those normally expected in the course of their duty | £413
<strong>WALLINGFORD STREET PASTORS</strong> [Charity number: [1144477](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1144477)]<br>To train and lead the Street Pastors as they serve the community of Wallingford at night. Together with the police and Council, they seek to reduce disturbance and anxiety by 'being there' as a peaceful presence and by helping where appropriate with flip-flops to walk home in, water and lollipops to diffuse tension. They help people get home or wait with them for lifts or paramedic attendance. | £1,996
<strong>THE POLICE MEMORIAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [289371](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289371)]<br>Erect and maintain memorials to police officers and Police Staff killed in the course of their hazardous duty. | £100,474
<strong>Blackstock Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC014309](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC014309)]<br>The trust shall annually apply the free residue of the income of the Trust Fund remaining after payment of expenses of administration, repair, and maintenance as hereinbefore provided and subject to the foregoing power to establish an equalising find, for such of the following charitable purposes as the Trustees may from time to time select:- (a) In making grants to or for the benefit of any persons of either sex resident in the Counties of Roxburgh, Berwick or Selkirk in Scotland who being aged or infirm or in ill health or blind or deaf or suffering from any other physical handicap are in need of financial assistance for their maintenance, accommodation or welfare and in providing such amenities as the Trustees may deem desirable for the comfort or for the alleviation of the distress or suffering of any such persons. (b) In making grants to any Institution, Association or like organisation of a charitable nature the objects of which provide for the care, attention, maintenance or welfare in Scotland of persons who are aged or infirm or suffering from some chronic ailment, or blind or deaf or otherwise physically handicapped. (c) In making grants for the welfare, maintenance and accommodation of (One) any police officer in Great Britain who has been incapacitated either wholly or partially, permanently or temporarily in the course of duty as a police officer, and (Two) the widow and dependants of any such police officer who has been killed or incapacitated in the course of duty. and in making grants to any Institution, Association or like organisation established for the welfare, training or otherwise for the benefit of any such police officer or the widow and dependants thereof. | £16,894
<strong>The Police Treatment Centres</strong> [Charity number: [SC043396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043396)]<br>The Charity's objects are specifically restricted to the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of ill health, disability or other disadvantage and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the Police Service for the public benefit in particular but not limited to: 5.1 Provide treatment and/or facilities for ill or injured police officers to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.2 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, for retired police officers and police cadets who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing. 5.3 Provide treatment, at the Trustees' discretion and where capacity allows, in significant and unique cases to members of a policing organisation who are ill or injured to support their return to better health and wellbeing.  | £6,809,156
