# Miners `PR104`

Miners is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Professions](PR.md) category.

341 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(mining|miners?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 127 | 0.17%
£10k - £100k | 141 | 0.21%
£100k - £250k | 36 | 0.17%
£250k - £500k | 9 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 7 | 0.11%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.12%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 330 | 0.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 287 | 0.17%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 54 | 0.22%
Total | 341 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Institute Of Occupational Medicine</strong> [Charity number: [SC000365](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC000365)]<br>The Objects for which the Company is established are:- (1) (a) To promote and undertake research into medical and related problems (including statistical methods, health statistics and other ancillary matters) associated with industry generally in the United Kingdom, including research into (i) the diseases and disorders to which, persons employed in industry are especially liable. (ii) the effect of the industrial environment on the health of persons working in industry. and (iii) the physiological aspects of mining and mine rescue operations. and (b) to publish, or arrange for or support the publication of, the results of research promoted or undertaken by the Institute. (c) the advancement of education in occupational medicine and in any other related field or subject. (d) the protection and preservation of health. (e) to assist in the protection of the life and property of the Queen's subjects. (2) To carry out research and scientific investigations of health and safety, and the occupational and environmental problems affecting health and safety, and to advise thereon, and to carry out work in related fields and disciplines, and to provide a centre or centres at which such research, investigations and teaching can be carried out. (3) To promote, carry out or advance any charitable objects and in particular the objects following namely:- (a) the advancement of health and the preservation and relief or cure of sickness and injury of those at work or exposed to the environment and (b) the advancement of education in the problems affecting the health of those so engaged... | £6,266,284
<strong>The Coalfields Regeneration Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039277](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039277)]<br>The promotion for the public benefit of urban or rural regeneration in areas of social and economic deprivation in the Coalfields areas in England, Wales and Scotland (in this Memorandum and in these Articles of Association 'Coalfield areas' shall mean any areas in England, Wales and Scotland where coal mining is or has in the past been carried out) | £5,141,000
<strong>NATIONAL COAL MINING MUSEUM FOR ENGLAND TRUST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [517325](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-517325)]<br>To collect, preserve, display and interpret whatever relates to the coal industry in England and to enable others to gain an insight into the mining industry and the life of mining communities | £4,155,794
<strong>THE INSTITUTE OF MATERIALS, MINERALS & MINING</strong> [Charity number: [269275](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269275)]<br>To promote the science, design, engineering and technology of materials, minerals and mining and their practical applications.To facilitate qualifications, professional recognition and development, and to deliver knowledge, information and networking services to a global membership and wider community. | £3,997,000
<strong>The Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining</strong> [Charity number: [SC050586](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050586)]<br>The objects of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as “the objects”) shall be to advance and develop all aspects of science, engineering and technology as applied to the discovery, exploration, development, characterisation, exploitation, processing, application and re-cycling of materials, minerals and fuels, to further and co-ordinate education, training and practice in these disciplines and to facilitate the acquisition, preservation and dissemination of knowledge pertaining to these disciplines, provided that in pursuing these objects, in so far as they may be similar to those of existing organisations, the Institute shall use its best endeavours to co-operate with them and to ensure that its activities are complimentary to those of such organisations.  | £3,997,000
<strong>REDHILLS CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1193927](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193927)]<br>For the public preserving the built and cultural of Redhills Miners Hall in Durham providing cultural events, educational activities and exhibitions focussed on coal mining heritage. Mobilising the people of the coalfields to tell the story of those who worked in the mining industries and lived in the mining communities. | £1,932,481
<strong>THE COAL INDUSTRY SOCIAL WELFARE ORGANISATION 2014</strong> [Charity number: [1160157](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160157)]<br>THE PROMOTION OF HEALTH, THE RELIEF OF PROVERTY AND HARDSHIP AND THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION AND ANY OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSE FOR THE BENEFIT OF EMPLOYEES AND FORMER EMPLOYEES OF THE COAL MINING INDUSTRY IN THE UNITED KINGDOM; AND ANY SUCH CHARITABLE PURPOSE AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL DETERMINE. | £1,698,078
<strong>Coal Industry Social Welfare Organisation</strong> [Charity number: [SC039529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039529)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are the promotion of health .the relief of poverty and hardship and the advancement of education (including social and physical training activities which are charitable by virtue of section 1 of the Recreational Charities Act 1958) and any other charitable purpose for the benefit of employees and former employees of the coal mining industry in the United Kingdom employed in or formerly employed in any present or past coal mining area of the United Kingdom and of their relatives and dependants and of the communities in which they live within those areas | £1,670,581
<strong>THE COAL INDUSTRY SOCIAL WELFARE ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1015581](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015581)]<br>Improving the lives of individuals and communities facing disadvantage due to the impact of the coal mining industry, through the provision of support, improvement of resources and protection of recreational land. | £1,670,581
<strong>NORTHUMBERLAND AGED MINEWORKERS' HOMES ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [227044](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227044)]<br>providing housing for retired miners and the widows of retired miners and others | £1,353,234


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THURNSCOE (COMMON ROAD) MINERS' WELFARE SCHEME</strong> [Charity number: [523972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523972)]<br>Recreation ground | £3,084
<strong>Kirkconnel Miners Memorial Centre Management Committee</strong> [Charity number: [SC047227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047227)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.  | £20,959
<strong>THE WESTERN REGION MINERS WELFARE TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [701501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701501)]<br>Promoting and improving the health, social well-being and conditions of living of persons who are or have been employed in the Coal Industry in the counties of Staffordshire, Lancashire, Merseyside, Greater Manchester, Cheshire, Shropshire, Clwyd, Gwynedd and Powys and their wives, husbands and dependent relatives and the widows, widowers and relatives of deceased persons. | 
<strong>Cambusnethan Miners Boxing Club</strong> [Charity number: [SC050497](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050497)]<br>The charitable objects for which the group is established are:  a. The advancement of public participation in boxing for the benefit of the inhabitants of Cambusnethan and its surrounding areas and in particular the advancement of youth activities b. The advancement of health and well- being of local residents by encouraging them to take part in organised sports activities.  c.  To provide or assist in the provision of facilities in the interest of social welfare for recreation and other leisure ?time occupation generally. d. To encourage local people to actively participate in the decision making process at a local level. Enabling them to gain skills and knowledge to help them develop l services locally.    | £10,155
<strong>EAST CORNWALL MINING HISTORY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1082887](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082887)]<br>Restoration of the only 2 Unaltered Miner's Cottages in Cornwall and East Kit Hill Engine House and Chimney. | £765
<strong>THRYBERGH MINERS RECREATION OR PLEASURE GROUND</strong> [Charity number: [1107241](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107241)]<br>Provides recreation and pleasure ground for use by residents of Thrybergh. | £3,040
<strong>Friends of the National Mining Museum Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022093)]<br>The objects of the Friends shall be to support the work of the Scottish Mining Museum Trust (hereinafter referred to as 'the Trust'), and to provide a means whereby persons interested in the objects of the Trust may participate in the activities of the Trust. The Friends shall at all times consult with the Trust, normally through the Director of the Trust, and shall abide by any directions that may be given by or on behalf of the Trust. | £1,609
<strong>MINERS INSTITUTE FUND</strong> [Charity number: [523599](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-523599)]<br>Funding for the Miners Institute. | 
<strong>Gilmerton Miners Charitable Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC021011](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021011)]<br>The Objects of the Society are to provide facilities for such forms of recreation and other leisure-time occupation as are conducive to the improvement of the conditions of living of the inhabitants of Gilmerton and the neighbourhood thereof within the Society's sphere of operations as defined from time to time and in particular (but not exclusively) such of the inhabitants as are members of the Mining Community provided that nothing herein contained shall authorise the application of the Property to purposes which are not in law charitable. The Society shall not be identified with any party or sect. | £16,150
<strong>The Fitzhugh Library</strong> [Charity number: [700930](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700930)]<br>The library collects the printed word and photographs on a wide variety of subjects which are related to the County Palatinate of Durham and the Ecclesiastical Parish of Ronaldkirk. It includes botany to zoology and mining to religion to architecture. It is a serious research facility used and available to everybody. | £1,982
