# Healthcare workers `PR103`

Healthcare workers is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Professions](PR.md) category.

347 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(nurs(es?))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 122 | 0.17%
£10k - £100k | 95 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 30 | 0.13%
£250k - £500k | 21 | 0.19%
£500k - £1m | 17 | 0.24%
£1m - £10m | 33 | 0.36%
Over £10m | 20 | 0.89%
Total | 338 | 0.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 285 | 0.17%
oscr | 42 | 0.17%
ccni | 20 | 0.29%
Total | 347 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>General Medical Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC037750](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037750)]<br>The main objective of the General Council in exercising their function is to protect promote and maintain the health and safety of the public. Section 1A Medical Act 1983 (as amended) The commissioners concluded that the GMC is a charity and accordingly is registrable with the Commission pursuant to section 3(2) of the Charities Act 1993. | £167,543,346
<strong>GENERAL MEDICAL COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1089278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1089278)]<br>We are an independent organisation that helps to protect patients and improve medical practice across the UK. | £167,543,346
<strong>NURSING AND MIDWIFERY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1091434](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091434)]<br>The NMC is the independent regulator for nurses and midwives in the UK. Our primary purpose is to protect patients and the public through effective and proportionate regulation of nurses and midwives. We set and promote standards of education and practice, maintain a register of those who meet these standards, and take action when a nurse's or midwife's fitness to practise is called into question. | £108,669,000
<strong>Nursing And Midwifery Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC038362](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038362)]<br>(2) The principal functions of the Council shall be to establish from time to time standards of education, training, conduct and performance for nurses and midwives and to ensure the maintenance of those standards. (4) The main objective of the Council in exercising its functions shall be to safeguard the health and well-being of persons using or needing the services of registrants. | £108,669,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MARSDEN CANCER CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1095197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095197)]<br>The Charity's objects are to raise money solely to allow The Royal Marsden Foundation Trust to fund state-of-the-art equipment and groundbreaking research, create the best patient environments, and ensure its nurses, doctors and research teams can provide the very best care and develop life-saving treatments which are used here in the UK and around the world. | £34,043,000
<strong>DEMENTIA UK</strong> [Charity number: [1039404](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1039404)]<br>Dementia UK provides specialist dementia support for families through our Admiral Nurse service. Admiral Nurses work alongside families, giving them the one-to-one support, expert guidance and practical solutions they need. Dementia UK also runs Admiral Nursing Direct, a free and confidential helpline for anyone with concerns about dementia. | £31,423,775
<strong>Dementia UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC047429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047429)]<br>The objects for which the Charity is established are: 2.1 The provision of professional nurses to support, help and care for those caring for people who are living with dementia (the service to be known as the Admiral Nurse Service and the nurses as Admiral Nurses). 2.2 The relief and care of the friends, relatives and carers of those who are living with dementia. 2.3 The relief, care and treatment of people who are living with dementia. 2.4 The development of a programme of practical research and the promotion of study and research into:- 2.4.1 understanding the causes nature and effects of dementia and into managing care for people living with dementia, 2.4.2 supporting people living with dementia and their relatives, friends or carers, and the publication of useful results of all such study and research. 2.5 The education of the public about dementia and the indirect effects on, and the needs of, people living with dementia and their relatives, friends and carers. 2.6 To engage in any charitable activities whatsoever which may protect and preserve the health of the relatives, friends and carers of people living with dementia. | £31,423,775
<strong>Teenage Cancer Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039757)]<br>The relief of sickness in young persons with cancer and related diseases in particular by providing the capital costs of units, research costs, revenue funding of nurses etc. and sponsoring of seminars and conferences relating to cancer in adolescents and young people with such terms and conditions, if any and in such a manner, in all respects as the trustees or governing body of the Company shall from time to time and at any time in their absolute discretion think fit. | £19,842,000
<strong>Northern Ireland Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [NI102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102337)]<br>We have an adult inpatient unit comprising 17 beds at Somerton Road. The beds are used to provide end of life and respite care to patients suffering from life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses, such as cancer. The unit also provides day care facilities and social work and chaplaincy help for patients and their families. Our specialist palliative care nurses and hospice at home nurses also provide care in patient's own homes. Our children's service has a ten-bedded inpatient unit at Horizon House. This provides for both children with complex needs to enjoy respite care, but family accommodation enables parents and siblings to stay with them. Again many of these children have life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses. Our education department has a course syllabus used by staff and outside allied healthcare professionals. Training for doctors is also provided, with doctors coming to work with us from Health Trusts, for six month periods at a time. Research is also carried out in collaboration with other hospices and educational establishments such as the University of Ulster. | £19,545,285
<strong>The Ayrshire Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC011390](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011390)]<br>The principal objects for which the Company is established are:- To provide specialist palliative care and services to people and families affected by life-limiting illness and to promote the advancement of palliative care and end of life care and to promote the hospice movement, all whether in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or elsewhere in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining Hospices in Scotland and by providing palliative nursing, medical, allied healthcare professionals and other supportive care services to any person (without regard to religion, race, creed, gender or sexual orientation) who is (at any age) diagnosed with a life limiting condition and by providing medical or other treatment services and attention for any such person anywhere (including the patient’s home). (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or life limiting illnesses and the provision of specialist palliative and end of life care. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied health or social services, or employed or volunteering to work for the Company and its associated partner agencies. This may also include members of the community in a caring role. (D) By providing and assisting as required the provision of multi-faith religious belief support and by providing pastoral care services for the spiritual welfare and support of patients, carers and relatives and friends of patients and carers and those employed or volunteering to work for the Company but also the wider community. (E) By providing counselling services and practical care and support for patients and carers, relatives and friends of patients and carers for those employed or volunteering to work for the Company or to any other person of any age impacted by the death of a family member. (F) By operating as a charity raising funds by any legal and appropriate means. | £19,024,888


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BISHOP'S CASTLE HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1125514](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125514)]<br>To relieve sickness and to promote and protect good health by providing services over and above that which the NHS provides to Bishop's Castle NHS Community Hospital and to assist the hospital working with its catchment area's six G.P. practices, Integrated Care Team, Nurses, therapists and the area's District Nurses to benefit the hospital's in patients and all members of the community. | £13,096
<strong>A Bear Named Buttony</strong> [Charity number: [SC049781](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049781)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 To support children and young people with a stoma, by providing a specially created teddy bear, “A Bear Named Buttony”. The bear is a CE approved toy, adapted by volunteers, with a button stoma in the same position as the child’s own stoma. Buttony Bear has proved to bring instant friendship, support and comfort to a child and their family. This makes the transition from undergoing surgery to living with a stoma less traumatic.  4.2 To support, educate and raise public awareness about life with a stoma. There is a stigma attached to living with a stoma. We aim to reduce that stigma by giving presentations about our work to interested groups and health professionals. We intend to develop and distribute an educational pack created specifically for nursery and primary school children.  4.3 To support the work of paediatric stoma nurses by supplying appropriate resources. We shall develop initiatives to support and enhance the lives of children, young people and their families living with a stoma.   | £71,693
<strong>WENDOVER DEMENTIA SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1182184](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182184)]<br>We  provide a support service to those diagnosed with Dementia and their carers and families. Primarily we cover the Wendover area.We are a team of volunteers that bring together different knowledge, skills and experiences. Our team includes  two  retired GPs, a palliative care nurse and bereavement specialist, a frailty care co-ordinator and a Dementia Champion who is experienced dementia care | £31,971
<strong>THE MIDDLESEX HOSPITAL NURSES' BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [268576](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-268576)]<br>The Middlesex Hospital Nurses Benevolent Fund was established in 1933 to enable Middlesex nurses to keep in touch with each other. One of the primary purposes however is to maintain a benevolent fund to help Middlesex nurses and all trained nurses who have served on the Middlesex staff who are in need through sickness or adverse circumstances. There is also an education bursary. | £20,333
<strong>YOU TOUCH AFRICA</strong> [Charity number: [1123085](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123085)]<br>-Assist volunteer teachers & nurses to work in Africa-Building and assisting Vocational Training Centres,-Assisting Micro-Credit Union,-Assisting women in setting up chicken farming project-Building and renovation of Schools and Hospitals-Establishing Computer Learning Centers-Improving diet in Primary Schools-Supply Educational & Medical MaterialAll projects are carried in Africa | £5,919
<strong>Advancing Care Advancing Practice. </strong> [Charity number: [SC042116](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042116)]<br>The purposes of Acute Care Advanced Practice (ACAP) forum Scotland are: the Advancement of education pertaining to advanced practice throughout Scotland. Advancement of patients health through education promoting patient safety and quality of care and sharing of best practice amongst advanced nurse practitioners. | £7,272
<strong>Combat Stress</strong> [Charity number: [SC038828](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038828)]<br>The Charity’s charitable purposes are, for the benefit of the public:  1.1.1 The relief of need and advancement of health of persons in the Armed Forces Network who have or have had mental health issues, up to and including people with multiple and severe needs that require the support of an interdisciplinary team of mental health specialists, or in relation to their mental health generally, including (without limitation) by:  (a) educating the public, including by carrying out or participating in research exploring the needs of treatment-seeking veterans, publishing the useful results through reports and articles so to provide up-to-date understanding of veterans mental health.  (b) providing specialist services, including clinical services, both in person, remotely and in residential settings.  (c) providing accessible quality evidence-based help and advice for veterans, their families, employers and other organisations that support veterans.  (d) operating a clinical pathway for beneficiaries, connecting those in need of treatment with appropriate support from professionals such as nurses, occupational therapists, and mental health specialists.  (e) providing tailored professional and peer-to peer support such as, but not limited to, trauma-focused therapy, substance misuse intervention, and groups for coping with PSTD and mastering emotions. | £14,100,000
<strong>BASICS (HAMPSHIRE)</strong> [Charity number: [1083110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083110)]<br>The charity funds a group of volunteer doctors and one nurse consultant who provide prehospital medical care to patients. The major component of our work is providing roadside care for victims of road traffic accidents, but we treat patients with a broad range of serious injury and illness. We aim to bring critical care skills to these patients that would normally only be found in hospitals. | 
<strong>THE TRIO BRIDGE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1180282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180282)]<br>The promotion of a holistic and evidence-based approach to healthcare in developing countries. It aims toimprove and enhance both maternal and fetal health through teaching and hands-on targeted education.Training doctors and nurses to improve outcomes for mothers and babiesprevention and intervention through training and information to relieve sicknessEvidence-based medical practices | £200
<strong>BRITISH HEART RHYTHM SOCIETY (BHRS)</strong> [Charity number: [273307](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273307)]<br>British Heart Rhythm Society (formerly known as Heart Rhythm UK) is dedicated to improving all aspects of arrhythmia care and electrical device based therapies along with acting as a unifying focus for those professionals involved.The society was formed in 2005 by the amalgamation of the British Pacing and Electrophysiology Group (BPEG), the British Association of Arrhythmia Nurses (BANA) and | £251,084
