# Judaism `RL106`

Judaism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) category.

1,727 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.85% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(jew(s|ish)?|judaism)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 377 | 0.47%
£10k - £100k | 485 | 0.71%
£100k - £250k | 270 | 1.44%
£250k - £500k | 151 | 1.71%
£500k - £1m | 132 | 2.42%
£1m - £10m | 179 | 2.37%
Over £10m | 13 | 0.74%
Total | 1,607 | 0.84%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,669 | 0.98%
oscr | 52 | 0.20%
ccni | 6 | 0.09%
Total | 1,727 | 0.85%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>JEWISH CARE</strong> [Charity number: [802559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802559)]<br>Jewish Care cares for people in the Jewish community. We give care & support to older people,Holocaust survivors,people with physical & sensory disabilities & with mental health needs. We offer support groups,run leadership & activity programmes for young people. Our staff & volunteers support thousands of people a week. Everything is guided by our Jewish values, warmth,kindness,honesty & respect. | £62,033,000
<strong>UNITED SYNAGOGUE</strong> [Charity number: [242552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-242552)]<br>There are five primary objects of the charity.1  To create and maintain synagogues conforming to the orthodox form of Jewish worship.2  To advance education in Jewish religion.3  To provide burial for same4  Relief of the poor 5  To advance charitable purposes of other Jewish bodies and in general any other charitable purpose in connection with the above. | £41,587,000
<strong>ACHISOMOCH AID COMPANY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [278387](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-278387)]<br>The charity is established to advance religion in accordance with the Orthodox Jewish Faith and for such purposes as are recognised by English Law as charitable and in furtherance of the aforementioned objects. | £37,276,880
<strong>NORWOOD RAVENSWOOD</strong> [Charity number: [1059050](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1059050)]<br>Norwood supports vulnerable children and their families, and young people and adults with learning disabilities and autism. Norwood transforms lives to enable thousands of people from diverse and mixed backgrounds, grow, learn and reach their full potential. Jewish communal values are at the heart of Norwood?s services and depth of Norwood?s work in the community is truly unique. | £31,234,000
<strong>NORWOOD SCHOOLS LTD</strong> [Charity number: [307992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307992)]<br>Promotion of education and the relief in need of people with learning difficulties and children and families in need through the provision of support, particularly in the areas of special education, respite and recreational services, family support including social work, and adoption, the beneficiaries of which activities shall be drawn primarily, but not exclusively, from the Jewish community. | £31,013,000
<strong>UNITED TALMUDICAL ASSOCIATES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [291834](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-291834)]<br>The Charity is established to advance religion in accordance with the Orthodox Jewish Faith and for such other purposes as are recognised by English Law as charitable and in furtherance of the aforementioned objects. To this end, the Charity maintains a voucher system to encourage and facilitate charitable support. | £17,184,157
<strong>A W CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [283322](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-283322)]<br>Provides grants to institutions set up to support the needy and to those furthering the Orthodox Jewish Religion and Orthodox Jewish  education. | £17,075,788
<strong>THE CHARLES KALMS, HENRY RONSON IMMANUEL COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [803179](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803179)]<br>The College aims for the highest standards of academic excellence in both Jewish and secular studies. It aims to create in its pupils an integrated personality whose Jewish identity is knowledgeable, secure and proud, a spur to achievement and responsibility, and a challenge to exemplary citizenship in an ethically and religiously pluralistic society. | £14,350,505
<strong>DELAPAGE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [276017](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276017)]<br>To advance religion in accordance with the orthodox Jewish faith and such other purposes as are recognised by English law as charitable. | £13,216,783
<strong>Community Security Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043612)]<br>1.1 The objects of the Charity shall be: 1.1.1 to promote good race relations between the Jewish community and other members of society by working towards the elimination of racism in the form of anti-Semitism. 1.1.2 to promote the efficiency of the police within the community at large and the promotion of good citizenship and greater public participation in the prevention of crime with particular reference to the maintenance of public order and racially motivated especially anti-Semitic crime. 1.1.3 to relieve the victims of racial or religious harassment and especially anti-Semitic harassment who are in need or who have suffered hardship or distress. 1.1.4 to promote research into racism and anti-Semitism and to publish the useful results of such research and otherwise to promote public education about racism and anti-Semitism. 1.1.5 Subject to clause 1.3 to promote and support such other purposes as are charitable in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, as the Trustees may from time to time think fit.   | £11,313,954


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SHOFAR DAY CARE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1160802](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160802)]<br>Advance the development and education of children, through childcare, which promotes the ethos and values of Reform Judaism. | £1,158,432
<strong>THE DAVIDAV CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1121865](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1121865)]<br>To further the relief of povertyTo further the advancement of educationTo further the advancement of the Jewish religionTo further any other charitable purposes beneficial to the community | £70,900
<strong>NORTH WEST LONDON JEWISH DAY SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [312519](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312519)]<br>The objects of the charity are to advance Orthodox Jewish education in accordance with the doctrine and principles of the Orthodox Jewish faith as laid down in the Shulchan Aruch. | 
<strong>JEWISH MATERNITY PROGRAMME</strong> [Charity number: [1116683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116683)]<br>To provide culturally sensitive ante and post natal information and support for orthodox Jewish families.  To provide other health promoting services to mothers. | £62,750
<strong>JTRAILS</strong> [Charity number: [1151165](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151165)]<br>THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC AND IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT SO AS TO LIMIT THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING TO PROMOTE THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE PUBLIC EDUCATION IN THE STUDY OF RESEARCH INTO THE JEWISH EXPERIENCE INCLUDING RELIGION, HISTORY, LANGUAGE, CULTURE, LITERATURE AND CUSTOMS AND THE DISSEMINATION OF THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH STUDY AND RESEARCH BOTH IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND OVERSEAS. | £12,000
<strong>THE DESMOND FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1184161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184161)]<br>4.1 THE PROMOTION OF HEALTH, IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY TO ASSIST AND IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR THOSE LIVING WITH VISUAL IMPAIRMENT, EYE CONDITIONS, HEARING LOSS AND DEAFNESS;4.2 THE PREVENTION AND RELIEF OF POVERTY;4.3 THE CARE AND SUPPORT OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE IN NEED, WHETHER MATERIAL, PHYSICAL, MENTAL, EMOTIONAL, SPIRITUAL OR OTHERWISE;4.4 THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE JEWISH FAITH THROUGH THE SUPPORT OF JEWISH CHARITABLE ORGANISATIONS;4.5 TO PROMOTE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT; AND4.6 THE PROMOTION OF THE PROVISION OF HOUSING, INCLUDING SOCIAL HOUSING, AND ASSISTANCE TO HELP HOUSE PEOPLE AND ASSOCIATED FACILITIES, AMENITIES AND SERVICES FOR POOR PEOPLE OR FOR THE RELIEF OF AGED, DISABLED (WHETHER PHYSICALLY OR MENTALLY) OR CHRONICALLY SICK PEOPLE;4.7 SUCH OTHER PURPOSES WHICH MAY BE CHARITABLE ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES. | 
<strong>YESODEY HATORAH GIRLS SCHOOL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1195096](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195096)]<br>(I) TO ADVANCE ORTHODOX JEWISH RELIGIOUS EDUCATION AND EDUCATION GENERALLY, PARTICULARLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY FOR THE PUPILS OF THE YESODEY HATORAH GIRLS SCHOOL.(II) THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE ORTHODOX JEWISH RELIGION.(III) TO PROVIDE OR ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NEED OF SUCH FACILITIES BY REASON OF THEIR AGE, INFIRMITY, OR DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCES WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. (IV) TO ADVANCE THE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE THROUGH SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS.(V) TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL DETERMINE, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY THE PROVISION OF SCHOLARSHIPS, BURSARIES, WELFARE GRANTS OR PAYING FOR ITEMS, SERVICES OR FACILITIES. (VI) THE ADVANCEMENT OF SUCH OTHER OBJECTS AS ARE FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC AND CHARITABLE ACCORDING TO ENGLISH LAW. | 
<strong>Glasgow Rabbinical College and Mikveh</strong> [Charity number: [SC008431](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008431)]<br>The object of the College shall be to promote Jewish Education at all levels and by all proper methods and to engage in such activities as will lead to the accomplishment of this end in Glasgow and the surrounding area.   | £11,164
<strong>HULL REFORM SYNAGOGUE</strong> [Charity number: [1080550](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080550)]<br>The Hull Reform Synagogue, known as Ne've Shalom, is a Congregation professing the Jewish religion formed with the object of providing and maintaining a Synagogue for the purpose of public worship and of advancing religious, educational and charitable activities | £17,678
<strong>FRIENDS OF MERCAZ BETH JACOB</strong> [Charity number: [285376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-285376)]<br>To assis in the education and development of girls of the orthodox jewish faith. | £330
