# Spiritualism `RL108`

Spiritualism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) category.

289 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.14% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(spiritualis[mt])\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 112 | 0.16%
£10k - £100k | 163 | 0.23%
£100k - £250k | 2 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 1 | 0.01%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 282 | 0.15%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 257 | 0.15%
oscr | 31 | 0.13%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 289 | 0.14%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Spiritualists National Union</strong> [Charity number: [SC041714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041714)]<br>The objects ('the objects') for which the Union is established are- To promote the advancement and diffusion internationally but particularly in the United Kingdom of a knowledge of the religion and religious philosophy of Spiritualism and such other charitable activities as the Trustees shall from time to time determine. Spiritualism is generally understood to recognise, and for the purposes of these Articles shall be considered as recognising, the following principles:- 1. The Fatherhood of God. 2. The Brotherhood of Man. 3. The Communion of Spirits and the Ministry of Angels. 4. The Continuous Existence of the Human Soul. 5. Personal Responsibility. 6. Compensation and Retribution Hereafter for all the Good and Evil Deeds done on Earth. 7. Eternal Progress Open to every Human Soul. and in these Articles the words 'Spiritualism' and 'Spiritualist' shall be construed accordingly.  | £5,540,514
<strong>THE SPIRITUALISTS' NATIONAL UNION</strong> [Charity number: [261898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261898)]<br>We promote SNU Spiritualism, administer a College, run educational courses, conduct examinations, award Certificates, Diplomas, etc., appoint Ministers and Officiants, promote spiritual healing, put on publicity events and conferences, publish literature, enrol Churches and individuals in membership, provide information, advice and support, act as Trustee for Churches, and promote missionary work. | £5,540,514
<strong>SPIRITUALISTS' NATIONAL UNION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1182379](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182379)]<br>The Trust provides financial support for churches affiliated/associated with the Spiritualists'National Union for the advancement of the religion of Spiritualism for public benefit. The Trust provides advances to its member churches to finance the building of new (or repair of existing) church buildings, which provides a facility for members of the public to worship the religion of Spiritual | £568,819
<strong>Spiritualists' National Union Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC049738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049738)]<br>2. OBJECTS 2.1 The Charity's objects are for the public benefit to promote the advancement and diffusion of Spiritualism by: 2.1.1 making Advances to Members (excluding Accredited Representatives) and member organisations for: 2.1.1.1 the purchase of land and the erection of buildings to be used for public worship in accordance with the religion of Spiritualism or otherwise for the advancement of Spiritualism. 2.1.1.2 other capital expenditure which is desirable for the proper functioning of their respective properties. and 2.1.1.3 other capital expenditure which is desirable for the proper functioning of their respective properties. and other expenditure ancillary to the purposes set out in Articles 2.1.1.1 and 2.1.1.2. 2.1.2 making grants to Members (excluding Accredited Representatives) and member organisations for purposes similar to those in Article 2.1. 1. 2.1.3 affording facilities for the Investment of funds by any Member (excluding Accredited Representatives) or member organisation. and 2.1.4 purchasing and making available, whether by way of lease or licence or otherwise, land and buildings to be used for the advancement of Spiritualism.  | £568,819
<strong>Sheffield SNU Spiritualist Church</strong> [Charity number: [1170245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1170245)]<br>We are a spiritualist church located at South Road, Walkley, S6 3TA.  We offer Divine Service, platform mediumship service, open circles and healing every week.  We also hold healing drumming once a month and various events and workshops throughout the year. | £324,956
<strong>THE GREATER WORLD CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1140411](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140411)]<br>Religious charity, combining churches, support of other charities, teaching, spiritual Healing, church services, including, funerals, christenings marriages, other charitable contributions to communities around the country, creating Ordained Ministers. | £237,732
<strong>The Palmerston Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042492](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042492)]<br>The objects for which the Trust is established are the advancement of religion and the arts by (a) promoting the investigation, study and practice of the religion, science and philosophy of Spiritualism based on the seven principles of Spiritualism. (b) providing a place for Spiritualist worship and community activities. (c) providing a chaplaincy service to administer to the spiritual needs of patrons and members of the public, and (d) providing a facility for the practice of spiritual healing, complimentary therapies and the creative arts to benefit the physical, mental, emotional, and spiritual welfare of society | £211,964
<strong>Rainbow House Grangemouth Spiritualist Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC046643](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046643)]<br>4.1 To relieve the mental and physical distress of people who have experienced child sexual abuse or any other abuse.  4.2 To emotionally support people who have suffered abuse with a strong focus on providing services for those who currently have few or limited services. 4.3 To raise awareness of abuse, and the nature and extent of it, and how to prevent it.  4.4 To encourage research into the causes and effects of abuse, how to prevent it and relieve the suffering caused by it.  4.5 To raise money for the purposes of the organisation and accept legacies and donations | £93,250
<strong>THE SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATION OF GREAT BRITAIN (FORMERLY THE MARYLEBONE SPIRITUALIST ASSOCIATION) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [225455](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225455)]<br>The Association offers private sittings with visiting mediums. Spiritual healing is offered six days a week inc Sat and Sun.  Demos of proof survival are daily. Divine service is held on Sundays. Workshops held on many aspects of mediumship on most Sats. Open circles held several times a month including weekends. Day classes held for those wishing to develop their mediumistic gifts. | £71,667
<strong>SIMONSIDE COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1038432](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038432)]<br>Mondays - parent & toddlers, fitness suite, cardio rehab, bingo. Tuesday - indoor bowls, fitness suite, junior football training. Wednesday - parent & toddlers, fitness suite, decouparge, spiritualist church. Thursday - sequence dancing, fitness suite, cardio rehab. Friday - parent & toddlers, fitness suite. | £69,080


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NORTH SHIELDS SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1162246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162246)]<br>The charity is a Spiritualist Church. The objects of the Church are to advance the religion and religious philosophy of Spiritualism on the basis of the 7 Principles of our religion. The Church holds 3 weekly services. The services provide healing, philosophy and demonstrations of mediumship. All services are open to the general public. | £19,213
<strong>REDHILL ISLAMIC CENTRE / JAMIA MASJID AL-MUSTAFA</strong> [Charity number: [1146489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146489)]<br>Islamic Religious Services, Activities, Lectures and Training, Islamic Schools, Mosque Visits, Nikah & Civil Registration, Death and Burials, General Services, Advice & Counsel, Spiritualism, Aqeedha & Fiqh, Community Cohesion, Seminars, Relief of poverty, Interfaith dialogue liaison with the local community and addressing matters of social welfare and other service required by the community. | £59,399
<strong>CHRISTIAN SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1019015](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1019015)]<br>Provide religous services, evenings of mediumship, spiritual circles and spiritual workshops, healing days, coffee mornings and open days for the community, in order to spread the truth of survival after death, and of spirit communion and healing.Also raises and donates funds to local charities and causes | £10,109
<strong>LOUGHBOROUGH SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1160201](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160201)]<br>As a church we hold two religious services every week, 2 sessions of Spiritual Healing we run educational sessions and workshops from time to time.  We occasionally have collections for the local Food Bank. | £7,871
<strong>CASTLEFORD SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1160155](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160155)]<br>The church aims to be a loving, welcoming and safe environment for all, providing religious services at least once a week whereby hymns, prayers and religious philosophy will be conducted. Spiritual healing will be available as will mediumship demonstrations, tutorial classes, help and advice on matters relative to spiritualism. Spiritualist wedding, funeral and naming services are also available. | £21,818
<strong>ROCK FERRY INDEPENDENT SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1145742](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145742)]<br>Rock Ferry Spiritualist Church is an Independent Spiritualist Church based on Merseyside that hold services upholding the Principals of the Spiritualist movement. We also offer Spiritual Healing and training to become a qualified spiritual Healer.There are also development classes for those wishing to understand and develop their spiritual selves. | £9,149
<strong>WARRINGTON SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1161327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161327)]<br>Our church holds regular services and meetings which are open to all members of the public.  Spiritualist teaching and philosophy during our services provides benefit to all members of our community and it promotes positive values and well-being.  We hold special events to bring to the wider public examples of our activities and Spiritual healing is open to all for a voluntary donation. | £15,964
<strong>Inverness Spiritualist Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC046093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046093)]<br>The objects of the Church are to advance the religion and the religious philosophy of Spiritualism on the basis of the Seven Principles of SNU Spiritualism. | £6,623
<strong>THE INSTITUTE OF SPIRITUALIST MEDIUMS</strong> [Charity number: [261885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261885)]<br>To raise the standard of Mediumship | £3,165
<strong>MIDDLESBROUGH SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1148035](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148035)]<br>DIVINE SERVICE WITH DIFFERENT GUEST MEDIUM WEEKLY: MONDAY 7-8:30pm donations only HEALING  :  WEDNESDAY  6:15 - 645pm donation only OPEN CIRCLE: WEDNESDAY 7-8pm £1.50 Workshops; coffee mornings and workshops and events - all as advertised | 
