# Hinduism `RL103`

Hinduism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) category.

389 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(hindu(ism|s)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 118 | 0.16%
£10k - £100k | 155 | 0.23%
£100k - £250k | 46 | 0.22%
£250k - £500k | 20 | 0.20%
£500k - £1m | 8 | 0.13%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.09%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 357 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 375 | 0.22%
oscr | 11 | 0.04%
ccni | 3 | 0.04%
Total | 389 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BOCHASANWASI SHRI AKSHAR PURUSHOTTAM SWAMINARAYAN SANSTHA</strong> [Charity number: [1143083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143083)]<br>A socio-religious Hindu charitabe organisation operating temples and centres throughout the UK to promote the Hindu faith. | £16,709,181
<strong>SARJUDAS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [273425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273425)]<br>Sarjudas Foundation is dedicated to fulfilling the spiritual, cultural and social needs of the people while promoting inner peace and harmony between individuals, within families, and amongst diverse communities. Community work includes Nurturing Children, Promoting Healthy Living, Fostering Education, Encouraging Sports, Serving the Community and Celebrating Hinduism. | £16,520,431
<strong>Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [SC040512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040512)]<br>To promote the advancement of the Hindu Religion and other religions of the world To promote the advancement of education by educational courses programmes and projects and studies of and research in the field of Hindu Religious Philosophy and Yoga (various techniques of concentration as defined and discussed in the Hindu Scriptures) and to make known the results of such studies and research To relieve poverty, mental and physical sickness and distress, and to promote the mental, spiritual or moral improvement of the community' | £3,429,956
<strong>SHRI VENKATESWARA (BALAJI) TEMPLE OF THE UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [326712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-326712)]<br>To promote the advancement of Hindu religion. | £3,068,939
<strong>ANOOPAM MISSION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [274942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-274942)]<br>Anoopam Mission is a faith organisation and charity, with a Hindu temple open to all members of the public. Numerous religious functions are held throughout the year, in addition to community events such as medical camps and yoga camps. It also provides a platform for youth activities such as sports, languages, arts, children's camps and organised outings. | £2,822,709
<strong>SHREE SWAMINARAYAN MANDIR BHUJ</strong> [Charity number: [1171929](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171929)]<br>Shree Swaminarayan Mandir Bhuj is a socio-religious Hindu charitable organisation dedicated to advancing education through the provision of teaching services, buildings, facilities and grants; and advancing the Hindu faith based on the original teachings and principles of Lord Shree Swaminarayan. It seeks to operate worldwide. | £2,767,137
<strong>SHRI KANAGATHURKKAI AMMAN (HINDU) TEMPLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1014409](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014409)]<br>- Provide a place of worship- Education includes religious studies, traditional methods of worship and cultural activities. | £1,870,266
<strong>THE OXFORD CENTRE FOR HINDU STUDIES</strong> [Charity number: [1074458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074458)]<br>The principal aim of the Centre, founded in 1997, is the study of Hindu culture, religion, languages, literature, philosophy, history, arts, and society, in all periods and in all parts of the world. All Hindu traditions are included. | £1,301,232
<strong>THE PARASAKTHY HINDU (SAIVA) TEMPLE TRUST UK</strong> [Charity number: [1174643](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1174643)]<br>THE PARASAKTHY HINDU (SAIVA) TEMPLE TRUST UK is established for charitable purposes only for the public benefit.To advance the Hindu religion for the public benefit by providing a temple for daily prayers and poojas where devotees can come to pray and perform various rites and rituals; | £1,293,972
<strong>RAGHUVANSHI MAHAJAN LONDON "RAMA"</strong> [Charity number: [1104605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104605)]<br>Hindu festivals celebrated :-Monday/Wednesday: Ladies Activity CentreTuesday: Gents Activity Thursday: Bhajans from 6.30pm to 10pm with Prasad at 7.45pmSaturday: 21 Hanuman Chalisa from 11.15 to 1.30pm followed by PrasadSaturday/Sunday: Sponsored Bhajans Daily Programme - at 10.00 to 11.00am and 6.30 to 8.00pmCurrently due to Covid - service provided Digitally only | £1,124,547


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE READING HINDU CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1115850](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115850)]<br>Providing place of worship for the Hindu community residing in Reading and surrounding Thames Valley areasProviding a place of hire for the local communityProviding Shakha facilities for children, youth, men and womenProviding Yoga classesProviding classes on HinduismOrganises School visits and Scout Group visits for enhancing their knowledge of Hinduism | £103,567
<strong>HINDU CULTURAL RESOURCE CENTRE, TELFORD (SHRI RADHA KRISHNA TEMPLE, TELFORD)</strong> [Charity number: [1127915](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127915)]<br>To provide facilities in the interest of social welfare, for improving the conditions of life of those persons who have need of such facilities by reason of their youth. age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social economic circumstances and to promote and further education in the history and culture of Hindu faith. To provide a place of worship. | £19,683
<strong>WELLBEING FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1146928](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146928)]<br>The company exists for the sole purpose of carrying on its work  propagating Hinduism based on various ancient and modern writings of great seers and relies on donations for funding its activities | £21,633
<strong>BHAGAVAD GITA RESEARCH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1200512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200512)]<br>To work to help others appreciate special place that the Bhagavad Gita has in Hinduism and the lessons that it has for the wider world. Publishing the journal and local and international level. | 
<strong>AYLESBURY HINDU TEMPLE CHARITABLE INCORPORATED ORGANIZATION</strong> [Charity number: [1209109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209109)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:1) TO ADVANCE THE HINDU RELIGION, SANATANA DHARMA. THIS INCLUDES THE PROVISION OF A HINDU TEMPLE, CELEBRATING HINDU FESTIVALS, CULTURAL AND SPIRITUAL ACTIVITIES, AND SPREADING THE HINDU PHILOSOPHY OF PEACE, HARMONY AND ONENESS IN THE WIDER COMMUNITY.2) TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION IN THE HINDU RELIGION, CULTURE AND TRADITIONS FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT.3) THE PROMOTION OF RELIGIOUS HARMONY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC BY:A) COLLABORATING WITH DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS COMMUNITIES BY PARTNERING WITH VARIOUS FAITH-BASED GROUPS TO PROMOTE GOOD RELATIONS AND MUTUAL RESPECT BETWEEN PERSONS OF DIFFERENT FAITHS.B) PROMOTING KNOWLEDGE AND MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING BY ENCOURAGING INTERACTION AND DIALOGUE THROUGH JOINT COMMUNITY EVENTS TO FOSTER UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECT FOR THE BELIEFS AND PRACTICES OF DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS FAITHS. | 
<strong>HANUMAN COMMUNITY CENTRE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1156618](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156618)]<br>Object of the charity is to advance and promote HINDU faith by spreading its teachings embodied in old HINDU writings. | £129,122
<strong>SHRI PASHUPATINATH SAMAJ, UK</strong> [Charity number: [1178973](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178973)]<br>THE OBJECTS ARE FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT:1. TO ADVANCE THE HINDU RELIGION IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY THE PROVISION OF A TEMPLE IN WEMBLEY AND THE SURROUNDING AREAS.2. TO FURTHER OR BENEFIT THE RESIDENTS OF WEMBLEY AND THE NEIGHBOURHOOD, WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE OR OF POLITICAL, RELIGIOUS OR OTHER OPINIONS BY ASSOCIATING TOGETHER THE SAID RESIDENTS AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, VOLUNTARY AND OTHER ORGANISATIONS IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE RESIDENTS.IN FURTHERANCE OF THESE OBJECTS BUT NOT OTHERWISE, THE TRUSTEES SHALL HAVE POWER:TO ESTABLISH OR SECURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY CENTRE AND TO MAINTAIN OR MANAGE OR CO-OPERATE WITH ANY STATUTORY AUTHORITY IN THE MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF SUCH A CENTRE FOR ACTIVITIES PROMOTED BY THE CHARITY IN FURTHERANCE OF THE ABOVE OBJECTS.3. THE PROMOTION OF RELIGIOUS HARMONY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC BY:(A) EDUCATING THE PUBLIC IN DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS BELIEFS INCLUDING AN AWARENESS OF THEIR DISTINCTIVE FEATURES AND THEIR COMMON GROUND TO PROMOTE GOOD RELATIONS BETWEEN PERSONS OF DIFFERENT FAITHS; AND(B) PROMOTING KNOWLEDGE AND MUTUAL UNDERSTANDING AND RESPECT OF THE BELIEFS AND PRACTICES OF DIFFERENT RELIGIOUS FAITHS.’ | 
<strong>ABBOTT WELFARE CHARITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1142661](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142661)]<br>To advance the education for the public benefit in Hindu culture, traditions and history.  To advance the Hindu religion for the public benefit. | 
<strong>ARYA SAMAJ COVENTRY</strong> [Charity number: [510144](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-510144)]<br>To promote Hinduism and Hindi Language. To serve community who are less previllged. | £160
<strong>KERALA CULTURAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1173692](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173692)]<br>Supporting local food bank and local community.(150 kg of food donated to the local food bank).Kerala Cultural Association actively promotes  harmony between different religious  and racial groups which help to reduce religious conflict,intolerance and discrimination.For example in April we celebrated Easter and Vishu festival together (Vishu is primarily celebrated by Hindus). | £20,411
