# Islam `RL104`

Islam is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) category.

2,907 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.43% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(islam(ic)?|muslims?|mosques?|quran|MASJID)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 589 | 0.83%
£10k - £100k | 1,008 | 1.44%
£100k - £250k | 478 | 2.17%
£250k - £500k | 245 | 2.26%
£500k - £1m | 142 | 2.12%
£1m - £10m | 87 | 0.97%
Over £10m | 16 | 0.73%
Total | 2,565 | 1.34%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,718 | 1.59%
oscr | 169 | 0.68%
ccni | 20 | 0.28%
Total | 2,907 | 1.43%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £275,575,689
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £271,466,000
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £60,980,930
<strong>AHMADIYYA MUSLIM JAMAAT INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1102949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102949)]<br>Our activities are as follows:- the propagation of Islam worldwide;- the building of mosques, hospitals and schools;- scientific research and development;- the award of scholarships for higher education;- the provision of emergency relief in cases of natural disasters; and- assistance to the deserving and needy. | £45,081,000
<strong>MUSLIM HANDS</strong> [Charity number: [1105056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1105056)]<br>International relief organisation fundraising in the UK and distributing those funds to educational and humanitarian projects worldwide. | £33,403,369
<strong>The Ahmadiyya Muslim Association United Kingdom</strong> [Charity number: [SC042131](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042131)]<br>(a) The propagation of Islam as expounded by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad of Qadian, the founder of the Ahmadiyya Movement and the Khalifatul Masih and generally to promote the comparative study of religion in any or all parts of the world. (b) The advancement of education among the members of the Association and such other persons as the Managing Committee of the Association may from time to time determine. (c) The provision, as far as possible, of maintenance of indigent persons, orphans and widows and for such other persons as are unable by reason of some physical or other infirmity or handicap to maintain themselves anywhere in the world. (d) The relief of poverty, need, hardship or distress in any or all parts of the world. | £29,819,493
<strong>AHMADIYYA MUSLIM ASSOCIATION UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [299081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299081)]<br>propagation of Islam;Building of Mosques;religious education for waqf nau children;emergency relief - natural disasters;assistance to deserving and needy; | £29,819,493
<strong>MATW PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1201110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201110)]<br>Humanitarian programmes, aid distribution and the furtherance of the Islamic faith | £24,769,457
<strong>MUSLIM AID</strong> [Charity number: [1176462](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176462)]<br>Whilst responding to emergencies is one of our major priorities, we also work on strategic programmes to eliminate poverty that focus upon:EducationSkills trainingProvision of clean waterHealthcareIncome generation projects | £23,727,463
<strong>MERCY MISSION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1122922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122922)]<br>To build capacity amongst BAME communities to better engage civil society. To develop the capacity and skills of the British muslim community specifically to better participate in contemporary society. To promote religious harmony  by supporting community programs and showcasing Islamic values in community service, and replacing unnecessary fear with opportunities for positive engagement. | £23,494,674


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE TROWBRIDGE ISLAMIC TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1069063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069063)]<br>Religious and Educational activities | £25,648
<strong>Courage Together</strong> [Charity number: [SC051150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051150)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes is to promote any charitable purpose for the benefit of BAME and/or Muslim who is single or has no family support and their children and, in particular  i. the advancement of education, by providing resources and signposting to educational resources and facilities  ii. the advancement of community and citizenship  iii. the promotion of equality and diversity,  iv. the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage,  v. the relief of poverty and distress and the improvement in the conditions of life for those in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  vi. the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees. | £16,894
<strong>THE MANCHESTER SOMALI ISLAMIC CULTURAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1064859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1064859)]<br>To promote the Islamic religion; To promote the culture and language and the Islamic traditions of the Somali community; To establish or secure the establishment of an Islamic centre and to maintain and manage such a centre for the furtherance of the above objectives. | £474,137
<strong>YOUR DAR</strong> [Charity number: [1207537](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207537)]<br>(1) TO ADVANCE IN LIFE AND RELIEVE NEEDS OF YOUNG PEOPLE THROUGH:(A) THE PROVISION OF RECREATIONAL AND LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES PROVIDED IN THE INTEREST OF SOCIAL WELFARE, DESIGNED TO IMPROVE THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE;(B) PROVIDING SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES WHICH DEVELOP THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;(2) TO ADVANCE EDUCATION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, THE PROVISION OR THE ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND FACILITIES, SUCH AS A SUPPLEMENTARY SCHOOL FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT;(3) TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP AMONG POOR PEOPLE AND THOSE IN FINANCIAL HARDSHIP BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, MAKING GRANTS FOR PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR ITEMS, EQUIPMENT, SERVICES AND FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE PROVISION OF FOOD, CLOTHING AND OTHER NECESSITIES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE SAID PERSONS;(4) TO RELIEVE SICKNESS AND TO PRESERVE GOOD HEALTH AMONG PERSONS IN NEED, BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, THE PROVISION OR ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF INFORMATION, RESOURCES AND CLINICS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE SAID PERSONS;(5) TO ADVANCE THE RELIGION OF ISLAM BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, PROVISION OR ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR WORSHIP AND ISLAMIC EDUCATION, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEACHINGS OF THE QURAN AND THE TEACHINGS OF PROPHET MUHAMMAD (PBUH) AS INTERPRETED AND ACCEPTED BY THE AHLE-SUNNAH WAL-JAMAA-AH SCHOOL OF THOUGHT. | 
<strong>NIMAB WELFARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1116452](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116452)]<br>The objects of the trust continue to be for the advancement of Islamic religion by ensuring peaceful co-existence with other faith within the society. The trust organises weekly prayer sessions, organise events such as nikkah (weeding), child naming ceremonies, birthday celebrations, summer visits to memorable places and participated in community integration  programmes of Birmingham City Council. | £34,821
<strong>ISLAMIC INFORMATION CENTRE - HASTINGS</strong> [Charity number: [1027419](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1027419)]<br>The basic aim is to remove the misgivings about Islam. It is done by an opportunistic personal discussion and lecture or debate by invitation. A free distribution of  Qur'an, Islamic or related Books, CDs and DVDs to non Muslims.  A stall is set up for the access to public and free distribution of Islamic literature on Interfaith or similar festivals and Open Days of the Hastings Mosque. | 
<strong>THE TRUTH FOUNDATION (AL HAQQ)</strong> [Charity number: [1141527](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141527)]<br>THE CHARITY IS AN EDUCATIONAL ESTABLISHMENT. IT FOCUSES ON EDUCATING CHILDREN ON ARABIC AND ISLAMIC STUDIES, ORGANISES LECTURES AND RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES FOR CHILDREN. | £16,690
<strong>MATW PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1201110](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201110)]<br>Humanitarian programmes, aid distribution and the furtherance of the Islamic faith | £24,769,457
<strong>NEWCASTLE MUSLIM CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1179992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179992)]<br>(i) To advance the Islamic faith in Newcastle City area.(ii) To provide or assist in the provision of facilities in the interests of social welfare forrecreation or other leisure time occupation of individuals. (iii) Such other charitable purposes for the benefit of the inhabitants of Newcastle Cityand the surrounding area as the trustees think fit.' | £77,622
<strong>AKANJEE FOUNDATION MASJID & ISLAMIC CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1146395](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146395)]<br>a) Advancement of the Islamic religion for the public benefit in particular but not exclusively by the provision of prayer facilities and the teaching of the Quran. b) Promotion of good health through the provision of information and advice sessions. c) Assist in the provision of facilities in the interests of social welfare for recreation (youth, age infirmity or disability) | 
