# Jainism `RL105`

Jainism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) category.

36 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.02% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(jain)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 14 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 10 | 0.01%
£100k - £250k | 3 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 3 | 0.03%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.03%
£1m - £10m | 4 | 0.05%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 36 | 0.02%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 36 | 0.02%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | nan | nan%
Total | 36 | 0.02%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE DR N K SHAH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [327291](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-327291)]<br>The trust promotes its aims with the co-operation of UK charities such as The Jain Network, Jain Samaj Europe, Jain Sangha of Europe, Ahimsa for Quality of Life, Jain Academy, World Council of Jain Academies and interfaith organisations. The trustees have attended relevant international conferences/meetings and have made donations for relief of poverty, religious education & place of worship. | £3,423,584
<strong>THE JAIN NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1131386](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131386)]<br>PROVIDING INFORMATION AND FACILITIES TO ADVANCE AND PROMOTE JAIN RELIGION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL AND ESPECIALLY THE JAIN COMMUNITIES IN INDIA AND THE UK,  BY MEANS OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING, RELIEF OF POVERTY, SICKNESS AND DISTRESS WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR SOCIAL WELFARE AND CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | £3,423,584
<strong>OSHWAL ASSOCIATION OF THE UK</strong> [Charity number: [267037](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-267037)]<br>Advancement of Jain religion.Relief of Poverty, Advancement of Education, Protection of HealthAnd Other Charitable Objects | £1,906,694
<strong>NAVNAT VANIK ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [1173042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173042)]<br>ORGANIZES RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL, EDUCATIONAL, SPORT, RECREATIONAL AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR THE BENEFIT OF NAVNAT VANIK COMMUNITY IN THE UK AND ABROAD WITH EMPHASIS IN THE GREATER LONDON AREA. DONATES TO OTHER CHARITIES IN UK AND ABROAD ON A REGULAR BASIS AND PROMOTES THE JAIN AND HINDU RELIGIONS. | £1,164,474
<strong>MAHAVIR FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [296175](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296175)]<br>Advancement of Jain religion and education in the UK & throughout the world. | £599,248
<strong>SHRIMAD RAJCHANDRA MISSION DHARAMPUR (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1138913](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138913)]<br>Advancement of Jain Religion for the benefit of the public through the holding of Satsang (Discourses/Lectures), Meditation Sessions, Conferences/Retreats, Bhakti (Divine worship in the form of Hymms and Chants. To promote and support Love and Care programme which encompasses various projects such as Animal Care, Education Care, Child Care, Community Care etc. | £577,458
<strong>SHREE RAJ SAUBHAG SATSANG MANDAL UK</strong> [Charity number: [1112669](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112669)]<br>Raj Saubhag is committed to: Promotion of Jain philosophy Support educational projects in rural areas mainly in Gujarat India.Support institutions specialising in rehabilitation of physically disadvantaged children.Support provison of medical services through institutionsGenerally help those below the poverty lineNo individual grants are made | £485,531
<strong>JAIN SAMAJ EUROPE</strong> [Charity number: [507899](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-507899)]<br>promotion of the Jain religion and provide a place of worship for Jains | £292,285
<strong>JAIN SAMAJ, MANCHESTER</strong> [Charity number: [511076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511076)]<br>CARRYING OUT ALL THE RELEGIOUS ACTIVITIES, RAISING FUNDS FOR CHARITY, LOOKING AFTER OLD AND YOUNG PEOPLEIN GREATER MANCHESTER AREA | £269,446
<strong>ACHARYA SHRI VIDYASAGAR DIGAMBAR JAIN CHARITABLE TRUST LONDON UK</strong> [Charity number: [1184814](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184814)]<br>ADVANCE DIGAMBAR JAIN RELIGION FOR BENEFIT OF PUBLIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROCLAMATIONS/TEACHINGS OF DIGAMBAR JAIN TIRTHANKARS & CURRENT/FUTURE ACHARYAS OF SHRI GYANSAGAR/VIDYASAGAR MAHARAJ ASSOCIATION (SANGH) BY PROVISION OF TEMPLE/COMMUNITY HALL TO HOLD PRAYERS, LECTURES, CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, PRODUCING/DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE & BROADCASTING TO ENLIGHTEN PUBLIC ABOUT JAIN RELIGION. | £192,471


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SANMATI</strong> [Charity number: [1107235](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107235)]<br>The relief of poverty, sickness and distress in the UK and overseas, by such means as the trustees shall from time to time determine. The advancement of the Jain religion. | £17,020
<strong>INTERNATIONAL MAHAVIR JAIN MISSION</strong> [Charity number: [506087](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506087)]<br>praying,meditation,teaching of jainism, sermons & other religious activities. | £29,964
<strong>ACHARYA SHRI VIDYASAGAR DIGAMBAR JAIN CHARITABLE TRUST LONDON UK</strong> [Charity number: [1184814](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184814)]<br>ADVANCE DIGAMBAR JAIN RELIGION FOR BENEFIT OF PUBLIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH PROCLAMATIONS/TEACHINGS OF DIGAMBAR JAIN TIRTHANKARS & CURRENT/FUTURE ACHARYAS OF SHRI GYANSAGAR/VIDYASAGAR MAHARAJ ASSOCIATION (SANGH) BY PROVISION OF TEMPLE/COMMUNITY HALL TO HOLD PRAYERS, LECTURES, CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, PRODUCING/DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE & BROADCASTING TO ENLIGHTEN PUBLIC ABOUT JAIN RELIGION. | £192,471
<strong>NAVNAT VANIK ASSOCIATION OF THE UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [1173042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173042)]<br>ORGANIZES RELIGIOUS, CULTURAL, EDUCATIONAL, SPORT, RECREATIONAL AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR THE BENEFIT OF NAVNAT VANIK COMMUNITY IN THE UK AND ABROAD WITH EMPHASIS IN THE GREATER LONDON AREA. DONATES TO OTHER CHARITIES IN UK AND ABROAD ON A REGULAR BASIS AND PROMOTES THE JAIN AND HINDU RELIGIONS. | £1,164,474
<strong>SHREE DIGAMBER JAIN ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1012340](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1012340)]<br>The principle aims & activities are to understand, practice and preach Jain Religion as defined and proclaimed by Tirthanker Shree Mahavir and as further recorded, depicted and/or otherwise explained in the scriptures by Shree Kund Kund Acharya and other such contemporary Acharyas and further practised, preached and propagated by Param Pujya Sadgurudev Kanji Swami of Songadh, Saurashtra, India | £77,908
<strong>MAHAVIR FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [296175](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296175)]<br>Advancement of Jain religion and education in the UK & throughout the world. | £599,248
<strong>MARDIA PUNYA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1108680](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108680)]<br>1. The advancement of the Jain religion;2. The advancement of education of the general public in the subject of Jainism;3. The relief of poverty sickness and distress and the preservation and protection of good health among persons anywhere in the UK and overseas;4. The relief of suffering of sick and abandoned animals. | £9,000
<strong>INSTITUTE OF JAINOLOGY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1131173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131173)]<br>The main activity of the Charity is to propagate Jain Philosophy and its value through art, culture and education, nationally and internationally, within the Jain and the wider community.In particular, to promote its relevance to today's world with regard to key aspects such as the environment and respect for all living beings. To provide a platform for interaction between different communities | £5,075
<strong>M Z AND K Z SHAH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1061589](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1061589)]<br>THE PROVISION OF RELIEF FOR THE POOR, HANDICAPPED, DISABLED, SICK AND THE AGED.THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION AND JAIN RELIGION. PROVISION OF RELIEF FOR VICTIMS OF DISASTER.PROVISION OF LAND AND BUILDINGS INCLUDING EDUCATIONAL AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES FOR PUBLIC USE | £119,368
<strong>LEICESTER COUNCIL OF FAITHS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1087153](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087153)]<br>Leicester Council of Faiths promotes trust, understanding and co-operation among the city's faith communities, speaks up for their viewpoint on significant issues, provides reliable information to civic authorities, service providers, educational institutions and local media. Our membership includes representatives of Bahai, Buddhist, Christian, Hindu, Jain, Jewish, Muslim and Sikh communities. | £6,270
