# Sikhism `RL107`

Sikhism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) category.

309 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(sikh(ism|s)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 60 | 0.08%
£10k - £100k | 88 | 0.13%
£100k - £250k | 64 | 0.29%
£250k - £500k | 33 | 0.30%
£500k - £1m | 21 | 0.30%
£1m - £10m | 13 | 0.14%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 279 | 0.14%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 292 | 0.17%
oscr | 16 | 0.06%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 309 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE GURU NANAK NISHKAM SEWAK JATHA (BIRMINGHAM) UK</strong> [Charity number: [508470](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-508470)]<br>-propagate the ideology and faith of Sikh religion by means of holy congregation-provide religious instructions to its members and the general public-foster brotherhood between Sikhs in particular and other faiths in general-practice, preach & preserve the Sikh tenets in the manner originally laid down by the Ten Gurus-provide all necassary religious services-promote spiritual wellbeing | £4,952,662
<strong>SRI GURU SINGH SABHA SOUTHALL</strong> [Charity number: [280707](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280707)]<br>Provision of buildings and facilities for the places of worship and educational institutions predominantly for the Sikh community. Health, fitness and recreational facilities for the elderly and youth in the entire community. | £4,761,371
<strong>SIRI GURU NANAK DARBAR (SIKH TEMPLE)</strong> [Charity number: [289430](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-289430)]<br>To advance the Sikh religion among the residents of the area of benefit by providing and furnishing a place of worship. To arrange marriage ceremonies in accordance with Sikh faith and current laws of England & Wales. To celebrate the historic days in the Sikh religion. To hold two main sporting events in the year. | £2,505,343
<strong>SINGH SABHA LONDON EAST</strong> [Charity number: [262277](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-262277)]<br>Sikhs religious place of worship, cultural get together. | £2,174,548
<strong>GURU MANEYO GRANTH GURDWARA</strong> [Charity number: [1111986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111986)]<br>The objectives of the charity are to advance the Sikh religion, including by the provision of temples and to relive poverty and sickness and to advance education both generally and in the principles of the Sikh faith for the benefit of the public. | £1,769,883
<strong>SRI GURU SINGH SABHA, SLOUGH</strong> [Charity number: [1126726](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126726)]<br>Operating a Sikh Gurdwara  Promoting Sikh Religion, Panjabi Langauge and Culture | £1,728,245
<strong>GURU NANAK GURDWARA SMETHWICK</strong> [Charity number: [1154098](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1154098)]<br>GNG Smethwick's mission is the propagation, practice and advancement of the Sikh Dharam based on teachings of the ten Gurus and Sri Guru Granth Sahib Ji, the eternal Guru and sacred scriptures of the Sikhs. With over 50 years of spiritual development and enrichment from Smethwick in the West Midlands. | £1,655,218
<strong>AFGHAN EKTA CULTURAL/RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1088637](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088637)]<br>The Community Centre continues to organise several activities benefiting the Sikh Community. | £1,413,015
<strong>GURU NANAK NISHKAM EDUCATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1102555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102555)]<br>The Charity currently operates a day nursery whilst developing infrastructure for a sikh ethos multi-faith school. | £1,375,465
<strong>THE KALGIDHAR TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1041548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041548)]<br>1. To propagate the sikh religion in accordance with the tenets of the Ten Gurus and the living Guru Granth Sahib Ji (The eternal living Guru). 2. To aid in relieving poverty in the U.K and abroad.This is carried out as follows:ÔÇóCatering for the needs of elderly (1 to 1 support) | £1,337,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SUNDERLAND SIKH ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1085546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1085546)]<br>Advancing the Sikh religion by:-1) Propagating the teachings of the ten Gurus and Ski Guru Granth Sahib2) Maintaining a library and reading rooms3) Encouranging and promoting the study of Sikh religion amongst the public and social cultural dialogue | £153,733
<strong>THE SOUTHEND SIKH SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1079847](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079847)]<br>Promote religious education, cultural values and community integration through regular monthly gathering attended by sikhs a people from other faiths. Teach music.Encourage children to take active part in the Society activities.Promote good relations in the local community by participating in the cultural and religious events organised by the local schools & societies. | £10,647
<strong>Northern Ireland Sikh Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102407](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102407)]<br>On Sundays the Association meets to have a prayer service and a vegetarian meal is served to all (Langar). People from other faiths attend in accordance with the beliefs of the Sikh Faith that all other faiths are to be accepted and honoured. The Association also holds regular diwans, celebrates gurpurbs and conducts ceremonies according to Sikh religious rites. The Punjabi Language is also taught at the Association's Community Centre. We have worked with the local Museum to organise Sikh Exhibition and Project and we facilitate organised visits by Northern Ireland schools and colleges to our Community Centre were we explain to them our practices and beliefs. The Association promotes living in harmony with other faiths and communities and those from the Irish, Hindu and Chinese communities are invited to Cross Cultural community events which we hold. We provide support for Indian students attending the Northern Ireland Universities. We assist elderly Indian people in various ways for example by providing transport to and from the Sikh Community Centre so that they can make the journey safely and can participate fully in the activities of the Association. | £21,211
<strong>SANGAT PURCHAR SABHA</strong> [Charity number: [1143348](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143348)]<br>prayer meetings, lectures on Sikh faith, 'sewa' which is unconditional charitable act, volunteers sharing knowledge of music to encourage more members of public to involve. including classes, leisure activities, promotion of religious harmony, other events to encourage younger community members to learn about different faiths and become more involved. | £24,347
<strong>GURU KA NIWAS GURUDWARA (RAMGARHIA BOARD SIKH TEMPLE)</strong> [Charity number: [1142433](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142433)]<br>to propagate the ideology and faith of the Sikh faith by means of holy congregations, provide religious instructions to it's members and the general public. | £259,829
<strong>SIKH 2 INSPIRE</strong> [Charity number: [1152466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152466)]<br>The advancement of the Sikh faith and its practices in the UK & abroad by  arranging lectures and seminars, conferences & educational camps. These take place at universities, Gurudwaras, multi faith events, private companies and community fairs. Also provide books & other material, Including multimedia, English, Punjabi & other languages to enlighten the public about the Sikh faith. | £155,665
<strong>SIKH ARTS AND CULTURAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1099447](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1099447)]<br>Raising money for local and national children's charities/projects:SACA, a voluntary charity organisation is the organiser of the event -Birmingham to London Charity Bike Ride (Est. 1984). Every year a children's charity is nominated as a beneficiary for the annual ride by the riders and volunteers of SACA. SACA also run their own projects to benefit sick children and children with disabilities. | £12,489
<strong>SRI GURU SINGH SABHA, KETTERING</strong> [Charity number: [277568](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277568)]<br>Religious place of worship. Promotion of Sikhism | £191,292
<strong>THE GURU NANAK GURDWARA WEST BROMWICH</strong> [Charity number: [511163](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511163)]<br>The objects of the Temple is to a provide  place of worship for Sikhs, to support the community in connecting with its religion and to integrate into the community within which they live. To make use of the Temple to uphold the faith of the followers of the ten gurus and the holy guru granth sahib and provide activities that encourage and support this. | £264,053
<strong>WOLVERHAMPTON SIKH MISSION</strong> [Charity number: [1176421](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176421)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE SIKH RELIGION BY THE PROVISION OF A PLACE OF WORSHIP IN THE CITY OF WOLVERHAMPTON FOR PERSONS PROFESSING THE SIKH RELIGION AND TO ADVANCE SUCH OTHER CHARITABLE PURPOSES (ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES) AS THE TRUSTEES SEE FIT FROM TIME TO TIME. | £608,111
