# Buddhism `RL102`

Buddhism is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) category.

384 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(buddh(is[mt]s?|a))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 81 | 0.11%
£10k - £100k | 158 | 0.23%
£100k - £250k | 67 | 0.30%
£250k - £500k | 25 | 0.23%
£500k - £1m | 18 | 0.26%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 359 | 0.19%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 341 | 0.20%
oscr | 39 | 0.16%
ccni | 4 | 0.06%
Total | 384 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NEW KADAMPA TRADITION - INTERNATIONAL KADAMPA BUDDHIST UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1015054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015054)]<br>Public promotion of Kadampa Buddhism throughout the world, by supporting the development of Kadampa Buddhist Centres throughout the world; by publishing and distributing books on Kadampa Buddhism; by training teachers of Kadampa Buddhism; and by maintaining a year-round programme of Buddhist teachings and meditation at the charity's home premises. | £5,968,058
<strong>SOKA GAKKAI INTERNATIONAL - UK</strong> [Charity number: [1104491](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104491)]<br>In pursuance of its charitable objectives, and in order to achieve the overall aims of its mission statement, the principal charitable activity of SGI-UK is the advancement of religion as it relates to the Buddhism of Nichiren Daishonin. | £3,201,786
<strong>Rokpa Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC038628](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038628)]<br>(1) To promote the Buddhist religion and to foster non-sectarian inter-religious dialogue and understanding. 1 (2) To provide medical care and therapy. (3) To provide education. (4) To relieve poverty. | £2,500,665
<strong>THE ENGLISH SANGHA TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [231310](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-231310)]<br>The main object is the furthering the teaching of the Buddha in the UK. The Charity's main activity is the development, maintenance and upkeep of two Theravada Buddhist monasteries in the UK. These provide focal points for members of the public to learn or deepen their understanding of Buddhism. Typical activities include meditation classes and retreats, public talks and formal ceremonies. | £2,227,344
<strong>THE LONDON BUDDHIST CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [255420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-255420)]<br>The London Buddhist Centre teaches meditation and Buddhism in a way that is relevant to contemporary western life. It is a non-proselytising public centre, open to all, with no expectation of Buddhist interest / involvement. The Breathing Space programme run by the Centre teaches Mindfulness Based Approaches to help prevent relapse into depression and addiction and to manage stress and anxiety. | £1,994,869
<strong>TRIRATNA SARANA</strong> [Charity number: [1014180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014180)]<br>Affording facilities for women to take advantage of retreat, training and ordination in the Buddhist religion | £1,614,312
<strong>GAIA HOUSE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [900339](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-900339)]<br>Gaia House is an Insight Meditation Centre offering a year round programme of silent retreats with meditation instruction and teachings drawn from the Buddhist traditions. | £1,366,290
<strong>THE COMMUNITY OF INTERBEING UK</strong> [Charity number: [1096680](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096680)]<br>We support, advance and encourage the study and practice of Buddhism and mindful living in accordance with the teachings of meditation master Thich Nhat Hanh, in the UK and overseas, in keeping with the Five Mindfulness Trainings of the Order of Interbeing  (Tiep Hien). We assist and encourage the formation and activities of regional and local groups having this common purpose. | £1,164,571
<strong>THERAVADA MONASTIC TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1127588](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127588)]<br>The main object of the charity is to support the development of a Theravada Buddhist Monastic Sangha worldwide. The Charity supports visits by monastics, retreats and the development of infrastructures for monasteries.. | £1,118,231
<strong>MIDLANDS BUDDHIST ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1041845](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1041845)]<br>INTER-FAITH AND EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES FOR BUDDHISM. | £1,079,077


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>KENT SRI LANKAN BUDDHIST CULTURAL CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1176744](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1176744)]<br>The trustees of Kent Sri Lankan Buddhist Cultural Centre plan to carry out the purposes of our organisation by performing/facilitating the following:a) Providing a place of worshipb) Organising a venue and other facilities needed to hold religious discussions and sermonsc) Organising meditation sessions including arranging other facilities for those sessions.d) Organising Buddhist festival | 
<strong>THOUSANDS BUDDHA UK</strong> [Charity number: [1180572](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180572)]<br>Raise awareness and understanding of religious beliefs, practices through leaflets and social media tools; Carry out Buddhist religious teaching.  Community Development by promoting volunteering, effective use of charitable resources, civic responsibility etc, and advance Buddhist Arts and Culture as taught by Buddha himself, and promote religious, racial and equality in England & Wales. | £52,079
<strong>DROLMA MAHAYANA BUDDHIST CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1107477](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1107477)]<br>We are a Buddhist Centre with a small number of residents. We offer weekly meditation courses, day courses, retreats in the New Kadampa Tradition of Mahayana Buddhism. | £36,436
<strong>Original Buddhism Society UK (OBSUK)</strong> [Charity number: [SC052715](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052715)]<br>Our purpose is to provide free-to-access and open-to-public opportunities to learn, practice, and rediscover the Buddha's original teachings based on the Four Noble Truths and the principle of dependent origination. | 
<strong>Black Mountain Zen Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI106141](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106141)]<br>• BMZC supports a teacher in the Shunryu Suzuki lineage, Ryushin Paul Haller Roshi, who provides support for Soto Zen Buddhism in Northern Ireland, both to individuals & groups, and ensures growth of Shunryu Suzuki’s lineage in Northern Ireland • BMZC has set up and runs city centre premises in Belfast offering 8+ meditation sessions per week, plus longer retreats • BMZC supports two to three residential retreats in Northern Ireland at Benburb Priory or other venues for practitioners from across Northern Ireland, rest of the UK and beyond on a donation only basis to assist people on low incomes • BMZC provides instruction and advice for beginners to Soto Zen zazen meditation practice in Belfast and beyond. • BMZC supports and develops the Zen practice of experienced students from across Northern Ireland • BMZC supports Soto Zen groups across Northern Ireland • BMZC brings noted UK & international teachers, poets & writers to Northern Ireland • BMZC supports Soto Zen Buddhism in Ireland (and beyond) through our website offering advice & support to individuals & groups • BMZC provides meditation equipment e.g. mats & cushions to associated groups • BMZC offers outreach work including talks & meditation sessions for school students & conferences, supports practitioners working in prisons and with local community projects in Belfast • BMZC represents Zen Buddhism at multifaith events in Belfast & across Northern Ireland • BMZC promotes the practice of mindfulness as an aide to mental, physical and emotional health and well being. • BMZC offers Zen & Recovery groups for those experiencing addiction issues. | £54,168
<strong>CHAN KHONG MONASTERY UK</strong> [Charity number: [1177511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177511)]<br>1) To advance the Buddhist faith and religion for the public benefit.2)   To provide the relief of financial needs and suffering among victims of natural or other kinds of disaster in the form of money or other means deemed suitable for persons or organisations including the provision of medical aid. | £102,098
<strong>LUMBINI NEPALESE BUDDHA DHARMA SOCIETY (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1116370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116370)]<br>- To organise Dharma talk twice a year.- To publish magazine 'LUMBINI@ anually with articles on Buddha, Buddha & His Profound Teachings.- To maintain & update website of the charity with information on Buddhism & related topics. | £928
<strong>THE DHAMMADHIPATI VIHARA (LONDON)</strong> [Charity number: [1110396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110396)]<br>ADVANCEMENT OF THERAVADA BUDDHISM IN THE UK THROUGH THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A MONASTERY FOR BUDDHIST MONKS WHO PROMOTE THE PRACTICE OF BUDDHISM IN THE BURMESE CULTURE BY MEANS OF CONNECTED ACTIVITIES AND RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION | £69,469
<strong>UK GUAN YIN CITTA DHARMA DOOR BUDDHIST CHARITY FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1165696](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165696)]<br>Promoting the teaching, study, practice and practical application of Buddhism and Guan Yin Citta in the UKOrganizing public events and facilitating the public dissemination and interchange of ideas and information about the practice of Buddhism andPromoting activities to foster racial and religious harmony, equality,diversity and peace. | £30,012
<strong>KAILASH BUDDHIST CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1084385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1084385)]<br>To promote the Buddhist faith | £78,843
