# Church of England `RL201`

Church of England is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

2,362 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.16% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(church of england|c of e)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 824 | 1.15%
£10k - £100k | 736 | 1.05%
£100k - £250k | 386 | 1.72%
£250k - £500k | 147 | 1.33%
£1m - £10m | 75 | 0.82%
£500k - £1m | 55 | 0.79%
Over £10m | 49 | 2.19%
Total | 2,272 | 1.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,357 | 1.37%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 5 | 0.02%
Total | 2,362 | 1.16%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £207,417,455
<strong>CHURCH OF ENGLAND CENTRAL SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1155158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155158)]<br>The Charity's objects are to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the National Church Institutions (NCIs), dioceses and other charities with a Church ethos by providing cost-effective shared financial, legal and other support services including payroll and also to promote the charitable purposes of the NCIs. | £130,697,000
<strong>PARISH GIVING SCHEME</strong> [Charity number: [1156606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156606)]<br>PGS's principal activity is to provide the most efficient & effective way for people to financially support the activity of the Church of England locally.  This is done through a regular giving scheme which collects donations through direct debit & makes the donation (including gift aid) available to be spent in a specified church/parish within 10 days. | £102,971,848
<strong>THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND PENSIONS BOARD</strong> [Charity number: [236627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-236627)]<br>Provides the best possible support and care, within available resources, to those who have retired from stipendiary and lay ministry within the Church of England, and to their dependants, through the provision of retirement and supported housing, and through discretionary grants to ensure beneficiaries have a minimum income standard. | £63,673,000
<strong>CHURCH OF ENGLAND CHILDREN'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [221124](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-221124)]<br>Frontline services focus on 10-18 year olds who live with significant disadvantage, poverty, neglect and who have complex needs and face multiple risks.  These include child exploitation, mental health, missing and runaways from home, substance misuse and children in and around the care system. We campaign about what needs to change to improve the lives of disadvantaged children and young people. | £40,642,000
<strong>CRANLEIGH SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1070856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070856)]<br>The advancement of education in accordance with the principles of the Church of England for boys and girls, or boys only. | £37,964,000
<strong>THE FRANCIS HOLLAND (CHURCH OF ENGLAND) SCHOOLS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [312745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312745)]<br>The Trust includes three separate girls' schools. Two of which are Senior Schools with Sixth Forms, for ages 11-18, and one is a Prep School for ages 4-11. | £36,940,000
<strong>THE KING'S SCHOOL, ELY</strong> [Charity number: [802427](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802427)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC INCLUDING EDUCATION IN THE DOCTRINES AND PRACTICE OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND. | £31,681,655
<strong>SOLIHULL SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1120597](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120597)]<br>The advancement of education by maintaining an independent day school for boys and girls in Solihull which shall have a religious character in accordance with the tenets of the Church of England and provide a liberal education.The charity provides financial assistance to individuals of ability who cannot afford the fees and offers its facilities to other local organisations. | £28,072,995
<strong>THE OXFORD DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [247954](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-247954)]<br>In summary the charity's aims are to promote the work and purposes of the Church of England for the advancement of the Christian religion in the Diocese of Oxford and elsewhere. | £27,968,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE BANBURY BLUE COAT FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [309191](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309191)]<br>The Banbury Bluecoat Foundation issues school clothing vouchers for children of parents on income support or the equivalent. It also makes grants to Church of England Sunday schools and to other educational activities in the town. | £112
<strong>THE CHARLES WRIGHT GOWTHORPE CLERGY AUGMENTATION FUND</strong> [Charity number: [213853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-213853)]<br>In accordance with the terms of the Trust grants are made to C of E clergy within 10 Miles of St Peters Church Nottingham at the Trustee discretion to augment their living costs . The Trustee is satisfied that the purposes remain charitable. The Trustee have complied with the duty in Section 4 of the Charity Act 06 to have due regard to public benefit guidance published by the Charity Comm. | £3,257
<strong>SKC Church</strong> [Charity number: [1171576](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1171576)]<br>The promoting of religious activities in connection with the Church of England Anglican church | £220,272
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST LAWRENCE, FRODINGHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1135445](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135445)]<br>Frodingham is a Church of England Parish, in Scunthorpe, seeking to promote the good news gospel of Jesus Christ locally, nationally and worldwide. | £111,100
<strong>SEAHOUSES HOSTEL</strong> [Charity number: [1177064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177064)]<br>By providing a centre called the Seahouses Hostel mainly but not exclusively for the advancement ofeducation and purposes beneficial to the community and religion; to provide a residential centre primarily for the use of young people from within the Church of England Dioceses of Newcastle and Durham and also other young people as the trustees determine | £90,944
<strong>HOLLANDS SCHOOL TRUST FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1042442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042442)]<br>The interest received annually from the proceeds of sale of Hollands School at Farnworth, Greater Manchester, to be used to further religious, educational and charitable work of Church of England in the Ecclesiastical Parish of East Farnworth & Kearsley and Trinity Methodist Church, Farnworth. | £6,089
<strong>ST MARY THE VIRGIN TURVILLE PCC</strong> [Charity number: [1209100](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1209100)]<br>Promoting the Church of England within the ecclesiastical parish | £42,861
<strong>LASLETT'S (HINTON) CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [233696](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-233696)]<br>Assisting in the repair, restoration, rebuilding and refitting of any churches and chapels connected with the Established Church of England;Assisting poor aged or infirm persons by making grants to organisations that help such persons, as the Trustees may think fit; | £644,707
<strong>CHARITY OF FREDERICK PEARSON FISHER</strong> [Charity number: [503463](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-503463)]<br>Grants are awarded to organisations that operate for the benefit of the public in the West Midlands and which support and further the religious and other charitable work of the Church of England, or relieve sickness and preserve the health of those people who are either permanently or temporarily resident in the West Midlands, with preferences as listed in the objects. | £15,909
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST. JOHN THE BAPTIST CHURCH, YEOVIL, SOMERSET</strong> [Charity number: [1134345](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134345)]<br>Regular public worship open to all.  The provision of personal space for prayer.  Pastoral work, including visiting the sick and bereaved.  Teaching of Christianity through sermons, courses and small groups.  The provision of Sunday school and youth activities with a Christian ethos.  Promoting the whole mission of the Church of England.  Supporting other charities in the UK and overseas. | £390,150
