# Society of Friends (Quakers) `RL206`

Society of Friends (Quakers) is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

197 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.10% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(quakers?|society of friends)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 43 | 0.06%
£10k - £100k | 75 | 0.11%
£100k - £250k | 38 | 0.17%
£250k - £500k | 11 | 0.10%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.14%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.18%
Total | 191 | 0.10%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 167 | 0.10%
ccni | 17 | 0.24%
oscr | 13 | 0.05%
Total | 197 | 0.10%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SOCIETY OF FRIENDS OF THE TORAH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1140838](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140838)]<br>The principal activity of the Society is the operation of a voucher system whereby the donorgifts to the Society amounts under the Gift Aid Scheme. The Society is able to recover the taxupon the gift thereby increasing the amount available for distribution to the recipient charity. | £20,845,155
<strong>SIDCOT SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [296491](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296491)]<br>THE SCHOOL'S AIM IS TO PROVIDE A FIRST CLASS INDEPENDENT EDUCATION, FOR BOTH DAY AND BOARDING PUPILS, ENCOURAGING EACH INDIVIDUAL TO BELIEVE IN AND EXPLORE THEIR OWN POTENTIAL. THE SCHOOL OPERATES "IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS FOR THE EDUCATION OF THE CHILDREN OF THE MEMBERS OF SOCIETY OF FRIENDS AND OTHERS" | £14,986,348
<strong>BOOTHAM SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [513645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513645)]<br>TO CARRY ON SUCH SCHOOL IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS FOR THE EDUCATION OF CHILDREN OF MEMBERS OF THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS AND OTHERS. | £13,650,896
<strong>BRITAIN YEARLY MEETING OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (QUAKERS)</strong> [Charity number: [1127633](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127633)]<br>Sustaining our church and faith; Supporting Quaker meetings; Promoting Quakerism; Witness through Action. | £12,253,000
<strong>SIBFORD SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1068256](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1068256)]<br>A 3-18yrs co-educational day and boarding Quaker School offering education built on a Quaker ethos within all aspects of the school. | £7,913,361
<strong>QUAKER INTERNATIONAL EDUCATIONAL TRUST (QUIET)</strong> [Charity number: [1072250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072250)]<br>QuIET primarily supports the provision of education for young people in accordance with the Quaker principles by its management of Brummana High School in Lebanon. | £5,388,110
<strong>THE JOSEPH ROWNTREE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [210037](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-210037)]<br>We are a grant-making Quaker trust which supports people who address the root causes of conflict and injustice. | £3,508,742
<strong>WOODLANDS QUAKER HOME</strong> [Charity number: [1141622](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141622)]<br>The provision of accommodation and care for older people through supported housing and residential care facilities. | £2,324,757
<strong>THE SIR JAMES RECKITT CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [225356](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225356)]<br>The principal object of the Charity is that its income be applied to such charitable purposes as the trustees think fit but excluding any purposes they consider to be of a warlike character. Some priority is given to Quaker causes wherever they may be and a high priority is also given to causes aimed at bringing benefit to the people of Hull and East Yorkshire. | £1,751,767
<strong>LONDON QUAKERS PROPERTY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1141797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141797)]<br>LQPT's prime objective is to advance the religious purposes of Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) Great Britain.              To achieve this, its main activity is to maintain, repair, preserve and insure the Quaker Meeting Houses, and other properties within the London area and to help pay for rented accommodation where appropriate. | £1,742,137


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>TALKING FRIENDS</strong> [Charity number: [299656](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299656)]<br>To provide those who are visually impaired with audio access to Quaker periodicals and books at low cost. | £856
<strong>The Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in Ireland, Coleraine Preparative Meeting</strong> [Charity number: [NI107093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107093)]<br>The Preparative Meeting was established to hold regular Meetings for Worship and provide pastoral care of its members and attenders. It is part of the Religious Society of Friends in Ireland (Quakers) | £19,960
<strong>THE GEORGE CADBURY TRUST (EDWARD CADBURY SECTION)</strong> [Charity number: [1040998](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1040998)]<br>The objects of the charity are summarised as being for the support of Quaker charities and organisations and Society of Friends activities as the Trustees in their discretion think fit and with no defined beneficial area. | £288,803
<strong>CRAVEN AND KEIGHLEY AREA QUAKER MEETING OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (QUAKERS)IN BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1184894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184894)]<br>The principle activities of the charity is the furtherance of the general religious and charitable purposes of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in Britain in the area pf Craven District and Keighley Town Council areas and beyond.   The charity owns and maintains 5 Quaker Meeting Houses and 1 closed burial ground and 2 open burial grounds.   The charity operates a Bunk Barn at Airton. | £109,643
<strong>THAXTED AREA QUAKER MEETING OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (QUAKERS) IN BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1194893](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194893)]<br>Thaxted Area Meeting is the Quaker body for NW Essex. Quakers are aPeace Church offering public opportunities for quiet worship. We work forpeace, equality, justice & sustainability inspired by our testimonies.Local Quakers work together, and often with other groups toward these ends.We also support projects further afield, often through our national offices oninternational  projects. | £111,234
<strong>Society Of Friends Of Paisley Abbey</strong> [Charity number: [SC016574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016574)]<br>The Society shall have for its objects:  The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science and in furtherance of:  a.The care of Paisley Abbey (the “Abbey”) and the Place of Paisley.  b.The adornment and furnishing of the Abbey and the Place of Paisley.  c.The maintenance of the music in the Abbey.  d.The encouragement of research into the history of the Abbey and the giving of grants in aid of the publication of the approved monographs in connection with the Abbey and the Place of Paisley. and  e.Generally the support of any project connected with the maintenance or improvement of the Abbey and the Place of Paisley.  | £21,839
<strong>WEST WEALD AREA QUAKER MEETING</strong> [Charity number: [1134523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134523)]<br>The furtherance of the general religious and charitable purposes of the Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) in Britain in the area of West Weal Area Quaker Meeting and beyond. | £161,151
<strong>FRIENDS HISTORICAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1218336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1218336)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO ADVANCE EDUCATION IN THE HISTORY OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (QUAKERS) IN BRITAIN AND TO PROMOTE THE STUDY OF QUAKER HISTORY.TO THAT END, THE CIO’S INCOME AND PROPERTY ARE USED SOLELY TO FURTHER THE SOCIETY’S OBJECT BY WORK SUCH AS:(I) PUBLISHING RESEARCH FINDINGS IN QUAKER HISTORY THROUGH THE ISSUE OF A REGULAR JOURNAL AND THE PUBLICATION AND SALE OF OTHER APPROPRIATE MATERIAL;(II) HOLDING LECTURES AND DISCUSSIONS AND ORGANISING CONFERENCES FOR SOCIETY MEMBERS AND THE GENERAL PUBLIC FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES;(III) PRESERVING AND MAKING AVAILABLE TO SCHOLARS, DOCUMENTS AND MANUSCRIPTS RELATING TO THE HISTORY OF THE SOCIETY OF FRIENDS;(IV) GIVING GRANTS FOR RESEARCH INTO QUAKER HISTORY;(V) PERFORMING SUCH OTHER TASKS AS MAY FROM TIME TO TIME BE DETERMINED BY A GENERAL MEETING OF THE SOCIETY, HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AS A GENERAL MEETING. | 
<strong>STAFFORDSHIRE AREA QUAKER MEETING OF THE RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF FRIENDS (QUAKERS) IN BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1192134](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192134)]<br>Staffordshire Area Quaker Meeting is part of Quakers (Religious Society of Friends) in Britain.  We comprise of 7 local meetings in Staffordshire holding meetings on Sundays for religious worship (Christian based) and involved in a wide variety of community service. | £100,641
<strong>WIRRAL AND CHESTER AREA QUAKER MEETING</strong> [Charity number: [1134210](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134210)]<br>Strengthen the life and witness of Quaker meetings in Wirral, Chester and beyond;Undertake Quaker service for the relief of suffering at home and abroad;Provide pastoral care for individual members Maintain Quaker meeting houses as places for public worship Administer and maintain the organisation of Wirral and Chester Area Meeting and contribute to the support of Britain Yearly Meeting. | £89,817
