# Church of Ireland `RL202`

Church of Ireland is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

389 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.19% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(church of ireland)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 13 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 220 | 0.31%
£100k - £250k | 117 | 0.52%
£250k - £500k | 34 | 0.31%
£500k - £1m | 3 | 0.04%
£1m - £10m | 2 | 0.02%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 389 | 0.20%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1 | 0.00%
ccni | 388 | 5.55%
oscr | nan | nan%
Total | 389 | 0.19%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Church of Ireland Diocese of Down & Dromore</strong> [Charity number: [NI107102](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107102)]<br>None | £3,429,287
<strong>The Church of Ireland Diocese of Connor</strong> [Charity number: [NI108457](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-108457)]<br>None | £2,131,416
<strong>Lurgan/Shankill/Christ the Redeemer/Down and Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101023](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101023)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £835,636
<strong>BELFAST/Belfast: Willowfield/Willowfield Parish Church/Down & Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101980](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101980)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £732,120
<strong>Moira/Moira/St John's/Down and Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101047)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £608,331
<strong>Magheralin/Parish of Magheralin/Holy & Undivided Trinity and St Saviours/Down & Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101224](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101224)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community | £498,811
<strong>CHURCH OF IRELAND AND METHODIST CHAPLAINCY BELFAST</strong> [Charity number: [NI108472](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-108472)]<br>None | £494,439
<strong>Eglinton/St Canice's/Derry/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104857)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £460,185
<strong>HOLYWOOD/Holywood/St. Philip & St. James/Down & Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI102092](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102092)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £446,909
<strong>Lisburn/Lisburn Cathedral(Blaris)/ Cathedral of Christ Church, Lisburn/Connor/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101233](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101233)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community | £438,218


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>cookstown/desertcreat/armagh/church of ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104351](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104351)]<br>All the functions of the parish related to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £115,655
<strong>Dromara/Dromara & Garvaghy/St. John/Down & Dromore/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101675](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101675)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community | £87,394
<strong>Ballymena Church Members Forum (BCMF)</strong> [Charity number: [NI107448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107448)]<br>Annual weekly Advent lunchtime Reflections held respectively in Catholic, Church of Ireland, Methodist and Presbyterian churches and led by their clergy. Open invitation on BCMF Facebook, churches Bulletins and local press. Simple hospitality provided by host church after each service. Annual Day Retreat usually led by member of local clergy and held in Christian Retreat/Conference Centre. Transport provided. Open Invitation. Occasional Day Visits to other faith groups/centres organised jointly with Interethnic Forum (IEF). Transport provided. Open invitation. BCMF promotes and supports Annual Good Friday Walk of Witness in Ballymena arranged by Clergy Fraternal. Healing Services led by International Divine Healing Ministries or non-denominational speaker These have been held in Catholic, Church of Ireland and Methodist churches according to availability. Open invitation. Social evenings. Occasional informal evenings to bring Forum members, friends and other organisations together. 'Conversations' involving high profile religious and civic representatives on issues of faith, politics and social concerns e.g. Baroness May Blood with Baroness Nuala O'Loan; Father Martin Magill with Reverend Steve Stockman; Christian/Jewish/Muslim leaders. Discussion, light refreshments. Neutral venues. Open Invitation. Talks series e.g. 'Forgiveness', 'Common Good' with facilitated discussion. Intentional engagement with local elected representatives, MLAs and MP for Ballymena area by meeting with individuals and cross-party small groups. Ongoing. Other joint events with IEF e,g International Café. Open invitation. Proposed march 2020 Festival: Community/Church groups Art Project, panel discussion, musical evening, town centre prayer walk. | £190
<strong>Coleraine/Camus-Juxta-Bann/Derry/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104703)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £121,056
<strong>BELFAST/Belfast:Finaghy & Upper Malone/The Church of the Epiphany/Connor/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI101986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101986)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community | £70,708
<strong>Kilbroney Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI104782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104782)]<br>The Kilbroney Christian Residential and Conference Centre was established in 1974 as a residential centre run with a Christian ethos, under the auspices of the Church of Ireland in the Down and Dromore. The Centre is available for all groups to use, particularly groups who work with children and young people. The centre is located on an 11 acre site combining open spaces with mature woodland in the village of Rostrevor, Co. Down. The Centre is available for use for Group bookings on a catered or self catering basis. | £193,782
<strong>Armagh/Kildarton/Armagh/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI103953](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103953)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £95,831
<strong>Dungannon/Clonfeacle/St Patricks/Armagh/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104302](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104302)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community | £49,004
<strong>BELFAST/Belfast: St. Michael/St.Michael/Connor/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI102396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102396)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £91,747
<strong>Portadown/Annaghmore/St Francis/Armagh/Church of Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104296)]<br>All the functions of the parish relate to the advancement of religion through holding regular worship and communicating with and caring for parishioners and others in our community. | £200,865
