# Roman Catholic `RL205`

Roman Catholic is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

512 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.25% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(roman catholics?|catholic church)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 108 | 0.15%
£10k - £100k | 134 | 0.19%
£100k - £250k | 46 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 39 | 0.36%
£500k - £1m | 41 | 0.61%
£1m - £10m | 85 | 0.94%
Over £10m | 32 | 1.46%
Total | 485 | 0.25%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 424 | 0.25%
oscr | 73 | 0.29%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 512 | 0.25%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1120102](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120102)]<br>The establishment, conduct and development of a Roman Catholic institution for the advancement of education for the benefit of the public. | £70,121,962
<strong>WESTMINSTER ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESAN TRUST AND OTHER TRUST FUNDS ADMINISTERED BY THE WESTMINSTER ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESAN TRUSTEE</strong> [Charity number: [233699](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-233699)]<br>Provision of places of worship.Provision of pastoral care.Provision of support to vulnerable and marginalised. | £69,633,000
<strong>CATHOLIC AGENCY FOR OVERSEAS DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1160384](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160384)]<br>CAFOD is the official aid agency of the Catholic Church in England & Wales. We:- work with communities in the global South to overcome poverty - protect lives & relieve suffering during emergencies- raise awareness of the causes of poverty to inspire a commitment to lasting change- challenge those with power to adopt policies and behaviour that promote justice & end poverty | £56,200,000
<strong>THE ALBERT GUBAY CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1193970](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193970)]<br>The charity funds projects run by registered charities in England, Wales, Isle of Man and Republic of Ireland. The charity aims to change the lives of people most in need through its grants, as well as supporting the Roman Catholic Church and its associated registered charities.  The Foundation makes grants from its three funds, The British Church Fund, The General Fund and The Irish Church Fund. | £55,420,279
<strong>Society of Jesus Trust of 1929 for Roman Catholic Purposes</strong> [Charity number: [SC040490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040490)]<br>The provision maintenance and upkeep of churches public chapels and presbyteries belonging to or connected with the Roman Catholic Church in Great Britain: The provision maintenance and carrying on of the religious services of the said Church in such churches and public chapels or others of a like character:The provision maintenance and upkeep of houses of Study Halls and Colleges for the education and training of Priests and persons desirous of becoming Priests of the said Church: The maintenance and support of and the provision of medical and surgical aid for infirm and aged Priests and clerics of the same Church and the burial of deceased Priests and Clerics of the same Church: The provision of necessary holidays and rest of Priests and Clerics of the said Church engaged in active work for the purposes thereof but so that contributions made by the Trustees under this and the preceding sub-clause shall be made only to or in respect of persons whose own means (if any) are in the opinion of the Trustees inadequate for such purposes: The relief of poor persons professing the Roman Catholic Religion in Great Britain or nearly related to Priests or Clerics of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Schools and Colleges for the general education both religious and secular or religious or secular of children and young persons members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Homes for infirm and aged Priests and Clerics of the said Church being in the opinion of the Trustees without adequate means of support and of Almshouses for infirm and aged poor persons being, members of the said Church: The provision maintenance and upkeep of Rest and Retreat house for the instructing in the Doctrines of the Roman Catholic Religion of members of the said Church MAXIUM TEXT REACHED, FURTHER FULL INFORMATION CAN BE OBTAINED DIRECTLY FROM THE CHARITY. | £48,904,000
<strong>Nazareth Care Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042374](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042374)]<br>The objects of the Charity are:- 3.1 to provide residential accommodation for the elderly, poor, disabled, sick and dying. 3.2 to provide for the care, assistance and support of all such people in terms of their medical, physical, spiritual and emotional needs. 3.3 to provide for the care and support of children in need. 3.4 to support the charitable purposes of the Congregation of the Sisters of Nazareth including the advancement of the Roman Catholic religion. and 3.5 to provide assistance to members of the Congregation of the Sisters of Nazareth in need of such assistance | £43,277,144
<strong>LIVERPOOL ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHDIOCESAN TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [232709](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232709)]<br>To provide support to the clergy in training, ministry and retirementTo support pastoral work in parishes and local communitiesTo support and direct lifelong Christian education in parishes and schoolsTo preserve and invest in the property infrastructure of the Archdiocese and parishes, facilitating worship and enabling the charitable work of the Church to take place | £38,660,000
<strong>THE DAUGHTERS OF CHARITY OF ST VINCENT DE PAUL CIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052894)]<br>3.1 The objects of the CIO are for such charitable purposes as shall advance the religious and other charitable work of the Province anywhere in the world as the trustees with the approval of the Provincial shall from time to time think fit provided that: 3.1.1 the CIO's property and the income thereof shall not be applicable to advance religious or other charitable work of the Province which the trustees with the approval of the Provincial consider should be advanced by the use of other assets. and 3.1.2 if at any time the Community shall cease to exist or shall cease to carry on religious or other charitable work in the Province then for such other lawful charitable purposes connected with the Roman Catholic religion as the trustees shall from time to time determine. | £36,762,390
<strong>ST GEORGE'S WEYBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1017853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017853)]<br>The advancement of education by the provision and conduct of a school or schools for boys and girls to enable the fulfilment of their academic potential and personal development within an ethos of Christian ideals which derive from the traditions and teaching of the Roman Catholic Church and by ancillary or incidental education or religious activities for the benefit of the community. | £35,226,950
<strong>ROMAN CATHOLIC ARCHDIOCESE OF SOUTHWARK</strong> [Charity number: [1173050](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1173050)]<br>The charity's aims are to establish, maintain, and advance the Roman Catholic religion in the area of the Archdiocese, or in connection with the Archdiocese of Southwark. The practical aims are to support the parochial and diocesan structure of the Catholic Church as set out from time to time in the rules and regulations of the Church, known as the code of Canon Law. | £33,764,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1120102](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120102)]<br>The establishment, conduct and development of a Roman Catholic institution for the advancement of education for the benefit of the public. | £70,121,962
<strong>NBCW CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1152541](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152541)]<br>The NBCW Charitable Trust supports the National Board of Catholic Women of England and Wales in providing opportunities for Roman Catholic women in those countries to develop their religious life as women in the church and to encourage interaction with women of other denominations. Activities  include study days looking at Vatican 2 documents and their relevance to Catholic women. | £1,019
<strong>FRATERNITAS SACERDOTALIS SANCTI PETRI LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1129964](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129964)]<br>Pastoral support to laity and clergy in England and Wales, through parochial ministry, retreats, training sessions, publications, pilgrimages and spiritual guidance. Special charism: the Extraordinary Form of the Roman rite (Roman Catholic Church). | £410,315
<strong>WORLDWIDE MARRIAGE ENCOUNTER ENGLAND AND WALES</strong> [Charity number: [272318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-272318)]<br>Worldwide Marriage Encounter presents training and education programmes for those who the Roman Catholic Church defines as having committed themselves to "The marriage covenant by which a man and woman establish between themselves a partnership for their whole life...".  It is in this context that it also presents marriage preparation training programmes, entitled 'Engaged Encounter'. | £61,042
<strong>PLYMOUTH CATHEDRAL CHAPTER</strong> [Charity number: [222367](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222367)]<br>The Chapter of Canons is a college of priests, whose role is to celebrate the more solemn liturgical functions in the Cathedral and to support the life of the diocese in their prayers.Statutes of the Plymouth Diocesan Chapter 1.2For the purposes of civil law the object of the Chapter is "Divine Worship in the Roman Catholic Cathedral of Plymouth and matters connected therewith".Statutes 1.5 | £10,155
<strong>THE ENGLISH TRUSTS OF THE INSTITUTE OF OUR LADY OF MOUNT CARMEL</strong> [Charity number: [261382](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-261382)]<br>The Trust raises money mainly through investments and donations.  This income is used for charitable purposes (whether for the advancement of religion or education, or the relief of poverty, or for any other charitable purposes whatsoever) connected with the Roman Catholic religion in line with the charity objectives. | £15,346
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE MARIAN FRANCISCANS</strong> [Charity number: [1193158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193158)]<br>To support the daily sustenance, accommodation, formation, growth and development of the Marian Franciscans, a rapidly growing Roman Catholic religious family of friars based in Portsmouth and Dundee, UK, who lead a life of prayer and penance and provide spiritual and corporal works of mercy locally and online following the teachings and spirituality of St Francis of Assisi and St Maximilian Kolbe | £127,505
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF WEST BROMWICH S.FRANCIS</strong> [Charity number: [1210897](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210897)]<br>An Anglo-Catholic Church within the Church of England, with Daily Masses, Baptisms, Weddings and Funerals. | 
<strong>ST GEORGE'S WEYBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1017853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017853)]<br>The advancement of education by the provision and conduct of a school or schools for boys and girls to enable the fulfilment of their academic potential and personal development within an ethos of Christian ideals which derive from the traditions and teaching of the Roman Catholic Church and by ancillary or incidental education or religious activities for the benefit of the community. | £35,226,950
<strong>The Congregation of Christian Brothers in Northern Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI102236](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102236)]<br>As a Religious Congregation, faith development in is of prime importance to the Trustees. All aspects of the charity’s work involve the advancement of religion whether it is in the educational, pastoral or international missionary fields. The charity continually assesses its work and searches for the best way to carry out the advancement of the faith in today’s world. The Brothers undertake social and pastoral work including chaplaincy, counselling for the sick, those going through bereavement and people suffering from alcoholism or depression, among other things. The Brothers provide spiritual direction and do retreat work with members of the public. The Brothers are involved in programs providing guidance and assistance to immigrants. The charity works with members of all faiths to promote cross community peace and understanding in Northern Ireland. The charity supports the international missionary work of the Congregation of Christian Brothers in the poorest and most disadvantaged areas of the world by assisting with personnel and finances. The charity was heavily involved in formal mainstream Roman Catholic Education. In 2009 the charity transferred the trusteeship and properties of its primary and post-primary schools to the Edmund Rice Schools Trust Northern Ireland (ERSTNI). The value attributed to these properties was £48m. The charity continues to support the work of ERSTNI by providing funding on a yearly basis. The charity also makes available playing fields for use by schools for sporting activities. The charity is also involved in non-mainstream training and education. It owns and operates the Westcourt Centre. The Centre is committed to providing an accessible learning facility with a focus on disadvantaged young people. The programs run at the Centre provide personal and social education opportunities. The Centre also offers facilities and services for the whole community, irrespective of age, gender, nationality or religious background. | £1,331,577
