# Church of Scotland `RL203`

Church of Scotland is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

1,069 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.53% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(church of scotland)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 38 | 0.05%
£10k - £100k | 557 | 0.79%
£100k - £250k | 336 | 1.51%
£250k - £500k | 88 | 0.81%
£500k - £1m | 23 | 0.33%
£1m - £10m | 8 | 0.09%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.13%
Total | 1,053 | 0.55%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4 | 0.00%
ccni | 9 | 0.12%
oscr | 1,056 | 4.26%
Total | 1,069 | 0.53%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011353)]<br>Objects: 1)  to offer Christian worship, fellowship, instruction, mission and service.     2)   to labour for the advancement of the Kingdom of God throughout the world.     3)   to bring the ordinances of religion to the people in every parish of Scotland     through a territorial ministry   | £119,434,000
<strong>The Church of Scotland General Trustees</strong> [Charity number: [SC014574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC014574)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £29,251,000
<strong>The Church Of Scotland Investors Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC022884](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022884)]<br>The Investors Trust was established in 1994 by an Act of Parliament to offer the councils, committees and congregations of the Church a simple and economical medium for the investment of their funds   | £18,198,000
<strong>Free Church Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC012925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012925)]<br>The advancement of religion | £6,477,468
<strong>Free Presbyterian Church Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC003545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003545)]<br>The prevention and relief of poverty. The advancement of education. The advancement of religion. The advancement of health. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £4,740,279
<strong>Arbroath and District Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC006482](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006482)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £2,832,837
<strong>United Free Church Of Scotland General Council</strong> [Charity number: [SC008167](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008167)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £1,908,232
<strong>St Giles' Cathedral, Edinburgh (Church of Scotland)</strong> [Charity number: [SC003565](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003565)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £1,695,572
<strong>West Moray Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC000711](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC000711)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £1,347,284
<strong>St Andrews Free Church of Scotland </strong> [Charity number: [SC045054](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045054)]<br>The Congregation aims to maintain the public worship of God and to foster Christian fellowship. to evangelise the local area by proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ, to exercise pastoral care and practical compassion for those in need. to uphold and further the interests of the Free Church of Scotland. and to participate in the worldwide promotion of Christian fellowship and the advancement of the Christian faith. All the business and proceedings of the Congregation shall be conducted in accordance with the constitution of the Free Church of Scotland, under the supervision of the Presbytery of the bounds, and in terms of the Acts, deliverances or directions of the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland. | £1,216,991


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Johnstone Kirk Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011747)]<br>The advancement of religion | £76,555
<strong>Caddonfoot Parish Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC016990](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016990)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £24,585
<strong>Colinsburgh Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC047417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047417)]<br>(a) payment of an annual bursary in cash or kind to the Colinsburgh Primary School pupil who has, in the view of the Trustees acting in consultation with the head teacher of the school, done most to enhance the life of the school in that year. declaring that the amount of said bursary shall be at the discretion of the Trustees  (b) payment of an annual sum to residents in Colinsburgh who the Trustees consider acting in consultation with the Minister for the Church of Scotland for the Parish of Colinsburgh are in need of financial assistance. declaring that the amount of said sum shall be at the discretion of the Trustees.  (c) upkeep and maintenance of the existing Library at Colinsburgh, or other library provision of the like nature to serve the people of Colinsburgh, including the maintenance of its property and library stock.  (d) to assist other charitable organisations with purposes similar to the Trust so as to further their charitable purposes within the Colinsburgh area by the provision of financial and/or material assistance.  (e) the advancement of any said purposes by the giving of grants or the provision of funding to persons, undertaking projects, initiatives and or activities which are wholly charitable within the meaning of Section 505 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and Section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 or any statutory amendment or re-enactment of them | £389
<strong>Glasgow: Hillington Park and Priesthill Trinity Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002614](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002614)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £112,189
<strong>Edinburgh: Gorgie and Palmerston Place Parish Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC004291](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004291)]<br>(c) the advancement of religion, | £498,397
<strong>St Andrew's West Parish Church of Scotland Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC011423](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011423)]<br>Objects: 1)  to offer Christian worship, fellowship, instruction, mission and service.      2)   to labour for the advancement of the Kingdom of God throughout the world.      3)   to bring the ordinances of religion to the people in every parish of Scotland  through a territorial ministry   | £83,089
<strong>Wick and Keiss Free Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC012047](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012047)]<br>The Congregation aims to maintain the public worship of God and to foster Christian fellowship. to evangelise the local area by proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ, to exercise pastoral care and practical compassion for those in need. to uphold and further the interests of the Free Church of Scotland. and to participate in the worldwide promotion of Christian fellowship and the advancement of the Christian faith. All the business and proceedings of the Congregation shall be conducted in accordance with the constitution of the Free Church of Scotland, under the supervision of the Presbytery of the bounds, and in terms of the Acts, deliverances or directions of the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland. | £8,615
<strong>Culsalmond and Rayne Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC010911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010911)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £7,522
<strong>Aberdeen: Fountainhall Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC002019](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC002019)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £798,071
<strong>Sauchie And Coalsnaughton Parish Church Of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC018155](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018155)]<br>The advancement of religion. | £64,751
