# Christianity `RL200`

Christianity is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

33,063 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 16.27% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(church(es)?|bible|biblical|chapel|christ(ians?)?|catholics?|christianity|clergy|ministry|baptist|gospel|monastery|testament|(greek|russian|serbian) orthodox|quaker|society of friends)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 8,069 | 11.35%
£10k - £100k | 12,206 | 17.38%
£100k - £250k | 6,129 | 27.49%
£250k - £500k | 2,438 | 22.36%
£500k - £1m | 1,058 | 15.40%
£1m - £10m | 934 | 10.26%
Over £10m | 230 | 10.30%
Total | 31,064 | 16.12%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 27,561 | 16.10%
oscr | 3,710 | 14.97%
ccni | 1,792 | 24.88%
Total | 33,063 | 16.27%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>Salvation Army</strong> [Charity number: [SC009359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009359)]<br>The objects of the Army shall be the advancement of the Christian religion, as promulgated in the religious doctrines set out in Schedule 1 to this Act which are professed, believed and taught by the Army and, pursuant thereto,  the advancement of education,  the relief of poverty. and other charitable objects beneficial to society or the community of mankind as a whole.  | £338,297,000
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £335,019,000
<strong>CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1098136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098136)]<br>UNIVERSITY OF HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION, INCLUDING RESEARCH. | £319,161,000
<strong>Salvation Army Social Work Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037691)]<br>' in promoting the charitable work of the Salvation Army in such one or more of the following ways as the General for the time being of the Salvation Army shall think fit namely : (1) relief of poverty sickness suffering distress incapacity or old age. (2) advancement of education. (3) training in Christian and moral principles. and (4) assistance of those in need of protection' | £239,727,000
<strong>THE ARCHBISHOPS' COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1074857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074857)]<br>Enabling, supporting, sustaining & advancing of the Church's:-worship, spiritual & numerical growth-engagement with social justice & environmental issues-work in education, lifelong learning & discipleship-selection, training and resourcing of people for public ministry & lay vocations-inherited fabric of buildings, to maintain & develop these for worship & community service. | £235,636,067
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £207,417,455
<strong>United Church Schools Trust</strong> [Charity number: [1016538](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1016538)]<br>The provision of a liberal, practical and general education, which includes religious instruction in the doctrine and duties of Christianity, through the operation of independent schools. | £175,965,000
<strong>CHURCH OF ENGLAND CENTRAL SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1155158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155158)]<br>The Charity's objects are to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the National Church Institutions (NCIs), dioceses and other charities with a Church ethos by providing cost-effective shared financial, legal and other support services including payroll and also to promote the charitable purposes of the NCIs. | £130,697,000
<strong>WATCH TOWER BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY OF BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1077961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077961)]<br>1. Provision of facilities to assist full time ministers. 2. Producing material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing Bible literature.3. Purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship.4. Humanitarian aid. 5. Distributing funds and goods to other entities with similar aims. | £120,653,380


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Friends of St John the Baptist Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI108549](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-108549)]<br>None | 
<strong>THE ST MARY'S BRIDGNORTH RESTORATION TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [500148](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500148)]<br>Ongoing maintenance of St. Mary Magdalene Bridgnorth Church & Organ | £20,444
<strong>Elpis Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC017103](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017103)]<br>3.1.1	The relief of poverty and distress of homeless and vulnerable young women in keeping with care standards applicable to such institutions and based on the founding ethos of Elpis of Christian care, justice and equal opportunity, and in furtherance thereof but not otherwise:-  (a)	to provide and manage property or properties primarily for young women or to manage properties belonging to third parties including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, Local Authorities or other public bodies, and the provision of services and support services to Local Authorities and others of whatever nature in order that such persons may be provided with accommodation, care and care services for those who are homeless or in need of care and to provide care and support based on the founding ethos of Elpis of Christian care, justice and equal opportunity.   (b)	to pay the expenses of providing, maintaining and furnishing premises used by the Company in furtherance of its objects.  | £1,207,655
<strong>Borders Street Pastors</strong> [Charity number: [SC046473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046473)]<br>4.1 To advance the Christian Faith in accordance with the Licence Agreement executed with Ascension Trust (Scotland) and the Core Values and Mission Statement appearing in the Schedule hereto in the Scottish Borders and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people on the streets and at various venues day and night. 4.2 To advance health, including the prevention and relief of sickness and human suffering, through the provision of goods or services of any kind including through the provision of counselling and support in the Scottish Borders and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people, including those suffering from amongst other reasons excessive alcohol or substance use or misuse, on the streets and at various venues, day and night. 4.3 To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by the provision of goods or services of any kind including through the provision of counselling and support in the Scottish Borders and in such other parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Trustees may from time to time to think fit, particularly but not exclusively by means of caring, listening and helping people on the streets and at various venues, day and night | £2,007
<strong>MANCHESTER UNITARIAN CONGREGATIONAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1032203](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032203)]<br>Income form the fund is to be applied towards the upkeep, repair and improvement of  churches whose congregations are members of the Manchester District Association of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches , and in the mainmtenance of services and otherwise furtheing the religious, educational and charitable work of that Association. | £23,594
<strong>Miss Mary Dunlop Murdoch Andrew Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC021977](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021977)]<br>The Trustees shall apply the income and capital of the Trust Funds for charitable purposes by the payment at such times as they may decide of grants to such charities as they may select, including for consideration but without prejudice to the generality, the British Red cross. the Royal National Lifeboat Institution. The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund. The Army Benevolent Fund. the King George's Fund for Sailors. the Earl Haig Fund. the Royal National Institute for the Blind. the Edinburgh and East of Scotland Society for the Deaf. the Royal Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The Marie Curie Cancer Care. the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Animals. Age Concern Scotland. the National Trust for Scotland. Gullane Parish Church. the Salvation Army. the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds. Guide Dogs for the Blind. the University of Glasgow Trust and such other charitable bodies as provide (a) for the maintenance and expansion of Christian Churches and organisations. (b) for the maintenance, relief, medical treatment or care of the sick, the blind, the deaf, the dumb, the aged or the poor. (c) for education or training, (d) for the care and upbringing of the young. and (e) for the preservation of places and buildings of historic or artistic interest: And I provide that the Trustees shall have full and unfettered discretion in the selection of the charitable purposes to which the Trust Funds shall be applied from time to time and that neither the naming of a charity as aforesaid nor the selection of a charity on a former occasion shall be taken as entitling a charity to receive a payment from the Trustees. | £39,080
<strong>MISSION GUATEMALA</strong> [Charity number: [1195621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195621)]<br>Mission Guatemala is the Corporate Trustee for Porchester Free Church Trust.  It meets three or four times a year to have oversight of and responsibility for the Trust, which operates largely in Guatemala, providing many services which are listed against their entry on the Charity Commission.Currently this CIO receives no funds of its own to manage and the Trustees give their time voluntarily. | 
<strong>CHARITY OF THOS MABLESTON OF BROTHERTOFT</strong> [Charity number: [226656](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226656)]<br>We provide financial help for the elderly in need and people with long term illness in the local community. We also support the church and village hall used by the people of Brothertoft. | £1,960
<strong>Edinburgh Chinese Christian Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC017702](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017702)]<br>The aim of the Church shall be to advance the Christian religion primarily but not exclusively among persons of the Chinese race in Edinburgh and the surrounding area. | £67,344
<strong>DERITEND CHAPEL ENDOWMENT</strong> [Charity number: [251912](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-251912)]<br>To provide grants from investment income (In total less than -£10000 per year) to further the religious and other charitable work of the Church of England in the ecclesiastical Parish of St Martin Birmingham or if not as above to extend to in the Diocese of Birmingham  and subject thereto for the like purpose in the County of West Midlands. | £5,400
