# Jehovah's Witnesses `RL204`

Jehovah's Witnesses is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) categoryand the Christianity subcategory.

1,355 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.67% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(Jehovah'?s? Witness(es)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 580 | 0.73%
£10k - £100k | 762 | 1.11%
£100k - £250k | 5 | 0.03%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 0 | 0.00%
£1m - £10m | 1 | 0.01%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.28%
Total | 1,355 | 0.71%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,249 | 0.73%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | 106 | 0.42%
Total | 1,355 | 0.67%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Britain</strong> [Charity number: [SC046952](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046952)]<br>The objects ('the objects') of the Charity are to advance the Christian Religion as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses | £144,317,948
<strong>WATCH TOWER BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY OF BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1077961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077961)]<br>1.   Provision of facilities to assist full-time ministers.2.  Funding the construction and refurbishment of places of worship in various countries.3.  Supporting congregations and associations of Jehovah's Witnesses and others in connection with their spiritual and material welfare in the United Kingdom and abroad, by making donations and advancing the Christian missionary work. | £144,317,948
<strong>THE KINGDOM HALL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [275946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-275946)]<br>Acting as custodian trustee holding title to freehold and leasehold properties acquired as places of worship for congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses in England and Wales.  The properties are used for public worship in the form of meetings providing Bible education and training in Christian living to which all interested persons are welcome. | £104,413,082
<strong>International Bible Students Association </strong> [Charity number: [SC046866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046866)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are to advance the Christian Religion in particular as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses  | £69,242,184
<strong>INTERNATIONAL BIBLE STUDENTS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [216647](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216647)]<br>Promoting the Christian religion by helping congregations of Jehovah's Witnesses & others with their spiritual & material welfare. We provide facilities for the production of Bible literature & housing for members of the order of special full-time servants. Conventions for Christian education are arranged & the public are invited. | £69,242,184
<strong>JAH-JIREH CHARITY HOMES</strong> [Charity number: [1062023](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1062023)]<br>Providing residential and nursing care in a spiritual environment for elderly or otherwise incapacitated Jehovah's Witnesses | £4,760,148
<strong>THE SURREY ASSEMBLY HALL OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1090209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090209)]<br>Advancing the Christian religion as practised by that body of Christians known as Jehovah's Witnesses: Advancing public religious education:promoting public religious worship: maintaining improving and promoting the Surrey Assembly Hall as a place for public religious worship. | £345,688
<strong>EAST PENNINE ASSEMBLY HALL OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [515577](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515577)]<br>Please refer to page 2 of our Trustees' Annual Report, contained in our Accounts. | £281,707
<strong>NORTH LONDON ASSEMBLY HALL OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1117465](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117465)]<br>Advancing the Christian religion as practised by Jehovah's Witnesses geberally by advancing public religious education and worship, and specifically by providing a place for public religious worship in North London. | £214,606
<strong>Dundee Glenesk Congregation Of Jehovahs Witnesses</strong> [Charity number: [SC014280](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC014280)]<br>The objects of the said congregation are identified with the purposes of the Society, and are specifically to advance the Christian religion, as practiced by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in the local area, | £143,660


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>EASTWOOD CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1070527](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070527)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £3,658
<strong>PRESTATYN CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1067698](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1067698)]<br>Arranging meetings for Public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christain message to the public within the congregation area. Disributing Bibles and other religious literature; also giving pastoral assistance to the congregation and wider community. all these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £9,337
<strong>WASHINGTON CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1065135](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065135)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £9,868
<strong>WATERLOOVILLE CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1066958](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1066958)]<br>"Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature; also giving pastoral assistance to the congregation and the wider community. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge." | £9,507
<strong>NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE, BENWELL CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [501436](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-501436)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £14,960
<strong>WELLS CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1067385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1067385)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area.  Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £7,670
<strong>REIGATE CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1066290](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1066290)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £10,319
<strong>GLOUCESTER, TREDWORTH CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1065455](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065455)]<br>Arranging meetings for public religious worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching  the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £17,071
<strong>Mount Florida Congregation Of Jehovahs Witnesses</strong> [Charity number: [SC015798](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015798)]<br>The objects of the said congregation are identified with the purposes of the Society, and are specifically to advance the Christian religion, as practiced by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in the local area | £15,656
<strong>LONDON TWI EAST CONGREGATION OF JEHOVAH'S WITNESSES</strong> [Charity number: [1109777](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1109777)]<br>Arranging meetings for public worship, which includes Bible education and training in Christian living. Preaching the Christian message to the public within the congregation area. Distributing Bibles and other religious literature. All of these services and facilities are provided without charge. | £14,196
