# Chaplaincy `RL301`

Chaplaincy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

246 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.12% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(chaplain(cy|s)?|hospitaller)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 55 | 0.07%
£10k - £100k | 93 | 0.15%
£100k - £250k | 38 | 0.20%
£250k - £500k | 17 | 0.19%
£500k - £1m | 9 | 0.16%
£1m - £10m | 16 | 0.21%
Over £10m | 4 | 0.23%
Total | 232 | 0.12%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 214 | 0.13%
oscr | 17 | 0.07%
ccni | 15 | 0.21%
Total | 246 | 0.12%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OASIS CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1026487](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1026487)]<br>Oasis Charitable Trust is a family of organisations running community Hubs providing holistic support to the communities we serve. Our work includes our Academies programme, youthwork, Chaplaincy services & churches, anti human traffiking campaigning through STOP THE TRAFFIK, Higher Education courses through Oasis College and supported housing through Oasis Aquila Housing. | £238,268,000
<strong>The Presbyterian Church In Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104483)]<br>Comment on matters of public importance from a Biblical perspective, issue statements on church policy relevant to the public domain. Maintain relationships with local, regional and national government, make representations and respond to consultations on relevant issues. Develop relationships with other Church bodies, charities, secular organisations and civic society. Monitor inter-church bodies of which the Presbyterian Church in Ireland is a member. Provide nominations to education and other state bodies where the Church is a stakeholder. Select, train and develop full and part-time ministers, offer pastoral care to them and their families. Select, train and support deaconesses and oversee their deployment. Maintain and manage Union Theological College, a third-level institution and a recognised College of Queen’s University, Belfast. Provide a conciliation service for church members. Resource presbyteries and congregations in worship; discipleship, nurture & teaching, pastoral care, world mission; and evangelism, outreach and good relations in the community and workplace. Enable the development of ministry among: youth and children; women; young adults; families. Provide marriage and counselling services. Provide support for local congregations in finance, health & safety and personnel issues. Develop strategic priorities in all-age mission in Ireland. Enable new church development and church planting. Support chaplaincy services in the Forces, Healthcare, Prisons, Universities and Colleges. Undertake overseas mission, develop partnerships with overseas Churches, send personnel overseas. Promote world development issues and facilitate thinking on issues of global concern. Deliver a social witness service to the wider community in partnership with appropriate organisations. Undertake policy development and administration of the Taking Care programme for the protection of children and vulnerable adults. Support a ministry to those with hearing impairment. | £28,208,405
<strong>Northern Ireland Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [NI102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102337)]<br>We have an adult inpatient unit comprising 17 beds at Somerton Road. The beds are used to provide end of life and respite care to patients suffering from life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses, such as cancer. The unit also provides day care facilities and social work and chaplaincy help for patients and their families. Our specialist palliative care nurses and hospice at home nurses also provide care in patient's own homes. Our children's service has a ten-bedded inpatient unit at Horizon House. This provides for both children with complex needs to enjoy respite care, but family accommodation enables parents and siblings to stay with them. Again many of these children have life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses. Our education department has a course syllabus used by staff and outside allied healthcare professionals. Training for doctors is also provided, with doctors coming to work with us from Health Trusts, for six month periods at a time. Research is also carried out in collaboration with other hospices and educational establishments such as the University of Ulster. | £23,417,000
<strong>SAINT JOHN OF GOD HOSPITALLER SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1108428](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108428)]<br>* Provision of a range of health, social care & pastoral hospitaller services that meet the needs of vulnerable, disadvantaged & marginalised people at all life stages throughout Great Britain. *Seeking to ensure that those served are treated with compassion, respect & trust. *Receiving all those in need with great charity and generosity. | £20,890,000
<strong>THE SOUTHWARK DIOCESAN BOARD OF EDUCATION (INCORPORATED)</strong> [Charity number: [313001](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313001)]<br>Primary function is to develop Church of England Education. Services are provided in the form of 1: Advice and Guidance to Teachers, Governors, Trustees and Chaplains. 2: Training and Development for School Staff and Governors 3: Project Manangement and support for the development of School Buildings and Facilities and 4: Support for the provision and development of Education Chaplaincy. | £9,233,771
<strong>WOODARD SCHOOLS (NOTTINGHAMSHIRE) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1103326](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103326)]<br>We are part of The Woodard Corporation (charity No 1096270) and we strive for the best all round education of every aspect of each individual. We are a Christian foundation and adhere to the Catholic foundation as found in the church and support the care of each individual and the whole school community particularised in the ministry of the school chaplains. | £9,145,364
<strong>THE ENGLISH PROVINCE OF THE ORDER OF PREACHERS</strong> [Charity number: [231192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-231192)]<br>To promote the Roman Catholic religion by preaching, teaching, pastoral care, chaplaincy work, writing, and other apostolic projects and to maintain the members engaged in such work. | £5,550,097
<strong>Belfast Central Mission</strong> [Charity number: [NI101271](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101271)]<br>BCM, an agency of the Methodist Church, was established in 1889 as a Christian response to social problems inherent in inner city Belfast. Located in the very heart of the city, its motivation was then, as now, to meet the needs of the whole person, spiritual, emotional, social and physical, regardless of class, creed or ethnicity. Today BCM seeks to support those most in need across Northern Ireland through a diverse range of social care projects and a community outreach programme which is enhanced by a dedicated team of volunteers. Activities include: • Residential care and Housing Support for older people • Community based advice and support, including Befriending, Lunch Club and short breaks for older people • Supported Housing accommodation for young people • Housing Support projects for young people • Parent Support projects • Therapeutic Counselling for young care leavers • Puddleducks Day Nursery • Christmas Support Programme - food and toys for people and families in need The congregation of the charity seeks to live through word and deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ, being a practical expression of the Christian faith through its support for the charity’s fundraising, befriending older people and encouraging the charity’s staff in all they do. Activities include: • Sunday services of worship open to the public • A mid-week early morning Holy Communion service • A ‘Prayer Diary’ which members of the public are encouraged to write in and members of the congregation pray for • Supporting, both financially and as volunteers, Belfast Street Pastors, a ministry of caring, listening and provision of help to the night-time economy • Supporting the establishment of a city centre chaplaincy • Supporting a Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and Spirituality project in North Belfast • Providing pastoral care to members of the congregation and the general public particularly during times of need | £5,230,919
<strong>Sisters Of Mercy, Northern Province</strong> [Charity number: [NI102827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102827)]<br>The advancement of religion and the prevention and relief of poverty in Northern Ireland and elsewhere are of utmost importance to the Charity. The Charity seeks to accomplish these charitable purposes through education, nurturing spirituality and well-being, social and pastoral work and international missionary outreach. 1. The Charity is involved in primary, post primary and community education and is the Trustee of a number of schools in Northern Ireland. The Charity supports projects which promote training in ecological awareness and sustainable living. 2. The Charity offers opportunities for faith development, prayer, retreats, spiritual direction and inter faith dialogue to members of the public. 3. The Charity undertakes social and pastoral work; chaplaincy, counselling, and complementary therapies to promote the health and well-being of people, contributing to the alleviation of stress in society. 4. The Charity works with the public in the promotion of peace, justice and understanding in cross community settings. 5. The Charity supports all religious and charitable works carried on in the Congregation's name and cares for Congregational Members throughout their lives. 6. The Charity works to prevent and alleviate poverty at local and international level through the provision of funds, personnel and community facilities and through the support of other charities and projects thus improving the quality of life and well-being of individuals, families, society and the planet. The Charity reviews its work to determine the best ways to advance religion and to prevent and alleviate poverty in today’s world. | £4,136,963
<strong>THE CARMELITE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1061342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1061342)]<br>Carmelite friars serve the community, directing a large retreat and conference centre at Aylesford, Kent, running parishes in Llanelli & Faversham  a university chaplaincy in York and a number of more specialised apostolates. | £3,163,283


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Lendrick Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC016873](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016873)]<br>The Company's objects are:- To relieve the poverty of people in Scotland who are in need, hardship or distress and to advance the public education in the practice and principles of yoga, to promote and advance the study, practice and research into the therapeutic effects of yoga as a means to improvement in mental, physical and spiritual health. In furtherance fo the above objects but not otherwise, the Company where appropriate may seek: (a) To provide medical or other treatment and attention, counselling and advice and to arrange lectures and conduct training courses and to publish phamplets, books, journals and other publications relating to the work of the Company. (b) To conduct or promote research into the prevention and treatment of illness, including stress conditions, through Yoga based therapies. (c) To provide or assist in the provision of appropriate spiritual help and guidance. (d) To purchase, take on lease or in exchange, hire, accept as a gift, or otherwise any real or personal property and any rights and privileges which the Company may think necessary for the promotion of its objects, and to construct, repair, renovate, equip, decorate, maintain and alter any buildings, or erections temporary or permanent necessary for the promotion of its objects. (e) To engage and pay such lecturers, chaplains, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, dieticians, therapists, healers and others necessary for the promotion of its objects, provided that such persons are not Trustees of the Council. (f) To establish and conduct schools, training colleges and other places of learning. (g) To borrow and raise money for the furtherance fo the objects of the Company in such manner and on such security as the Company may think fit. | £25,651
<strong>Northern Ireland Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [NI102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102337)]<br>We have an adult inpatient unit comprising 17 beds at Somerton Road. The beds are used to provide end of life and respite care to patients suffering from life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses, such as cancer. The unit also provides day care facilities and social work and chaplaincy help for patients and their families. Our specialist palliative care nurses and hospice at home nurses also provide care in patient's own homes. Our children's service has a ten-bedded inpatient unit at Horizon House. This provides for both children with complex needs to enjoy respite care, but family accommodation enables parents and siblings to stay with them. Again many of these children have life-limiting and life-threatening illnesses. Our education department has a course syllabus used by staff and outside allied healthcare professionals. Training for doctors is also provided, with doctors coming to work with us from Health Trusts, for six month periods at a time. Research is also carried out in collaboration with other hospices and educational establishments such as the University of Ulster. | £23,417,000
<strong>HOLSWORTHY COMMUNITY CHRISTIAN YOUTH CHAPLAINCY</strong> [Charity number: [1177787](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1177787)]<br>The primary activities are:In respect of Holsworthy Community College to:Provide extra curricular activities particularly from a Christian faith based perspectiveProvide lesson support in Religious Studies, informed by the Christian faithProvide pastoral careTaking assembliesIn respect to youth groups to:Provide support, pastoral care and an informed Christian presence | £20,658
<strong>Work Place Chaplaincy Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC041857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041857)]<br>3.1.1 to promote, develop and manage a Christian chaplaincy which provides pastoral and spiritual support, care and guidance in the work place in Scotland. and  3.1.2 to train, support and develop both lay and ordained people to engage in work place chaplaincy in Scotland. | £382,794
<strong>THE SHIRLEY COMMUNITY CHAPLAINCY (NORTH-EAST)</strong> [Charity number: [1158939](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158939)]<br>The Shirley Community Chaplaincy( North East) helps,supports and encourages ex-offenders to integrate successfully back into society. We offer counselling,practical support and a range of activities to assist ex- offenders to make the transition out of prison.Activities include; camping,fishing, walking and visits to places of interest. Ex- offenders are encouraged to train as peer mentors. | £21,447
<strong>MIDLAND REGION CHAPLAINCY BOARD</strong> [Charity number: [511139](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-511139)]<br>Supporting the needs of Jewish students  - of all degrees of religious affiliation and none - in the region. this includes the provision of pastoral care, educational activities, hospitality. Also the chaplain has senior level access to the relevant University Authorities to enable issues which may affect individual students to be raised and resolved. | £6,063
<strong>THE TRINITY HOSPITAL CHARITIES CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1178807](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178807)]<br>THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY OF THOSE IN NEED, HARDSHIP OR DISTRESS BY PROVIDING ALMSHOUSE ACCOMMODATION FOR PEOPLE OVER THE AGE OF 60 YEARS AND OF LIMITED FINANCIAL MEANS. THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH BY THE PROVISION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE ON-SITE CHAPEL AND THE PROVISION AND APPOINTMENT OF A CHAPLAIN WHO SHALL BE A MINISTER OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND. | £216,803
<strong>SOUTH WEST COMMUNITY CHAPLAINCY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1128372](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128372)]<br>COMMUNITY CHAPLAINCY WORKS WITH PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS AND OF NONE.  IT SEEKS TO PROVIDE PRACTICAL, EMPOWERING AND AFFIRMING SUPPORT FOR PRISONERS AND EX-PRISONERS BOTH PRIOR TO DISCHARGE AND ON RELEASE, IN ORDER THAT THEY MAY SUCCESSFULLY RE-INTEGRATE INTO THE COMMUNITY, REALISE THEIR POTENTIAL AND NOT RETURN TO PRISON. | £144,594
<strong>CANARY WHARF MULTIFAITH CHAPLAINCY</strong> [Charity number: [1194825](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194825)]<br>(1) ADVANCING RELIGION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PROVIDING A MULTIFAITH CHAPLAINCY SERVICE TO ALL OF THOSE IN THE CANARY WHARF ESTATE (THE "ESTATE"), INCLUDING APPROPRIATE WORSHIP AND PASTORAL CARE FOR THOSE OF ALL FAITHS AND NONE AND LENDING EMOTIONAL, SPIRITUAL AND PRACTICAL SUPPORT TO THOSE IN NEED; AND(2) PROMOTING RELIGIOUS HARMONY FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY TEACHING PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS AND NONE TO APPRECIATE EACH OTHER'S DISTINCTIVE BELIEFS AND PRACTICES AND THEIR COMMON GROUND, AND TO THIS END ALSO ENCOURAGING FRIENDSHIP, GOODWILL AND UNDERSTANDING AMONGST PEOPLE OF ALL FAITHS AND NONE. | 
<strong>Sister Anna Chaplaincy Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI107366](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107366)]<br>From the beginning of the chaplaincy programme in Lagan College the work of the chaplains has fallen into three broad areas: pastoral care of students; nurturing the spiritual life of the College and the care-taking and cultivating of the school's Christian integrated ethos. There are a number of ways in which this is done. Pastoral care is provided by a drop in facility during break and lunchtimes where students can raise issues that concern them, receive advice and encouragement or share ideas. A collection of reading materials has been built up and is on display for students. Books and magazines on topics such as bereavement, stress management, understanding world religions, the Troubles and Integrated Education are available to students. One-to-one appointments can be arranged with students and staff to talk, pray or just find some space. The reasons for which students and staff come are varied but one of the most important ways in which support is provided is during times of bereavement. Mediation to resolve conflicts between students is available to empower the students to resolve their own conflicts. The planning and coordination of worship and assemblies remains central to our work. These include special assemblies at Christmas, Harvest, Easter and other important times of the year. Prayer and reflection occurs throughout the year and the participation of all who come to our services deeply affirms our relationships across different traditions. We cooperate with the RE Department of the school to facilitate church visits to different denominations. Our relationships with local church communities provide a valuable opportunity for dialogue and exchange around the issue of spirituality in education. The care-taking and cultivating of the school's Christian integrated ethos is central to build genuine friendships regardless of cultural, religious or political backgrounds. This is done by facilitating workshops with students, seminars and programmes. | £1,502
