# Religious activities `RL300`

Religious activities is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

8,265 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 4.07% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(religious activities|advance(ment of)? the .* faith|advance(ment of)?( the)?.*religio(us|on)+|religious events)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,554 | 2.18%
£10k - £100k | 2,844 | 4.06%
£100k - £250k | 1,476 | 6.70%
£250k - £500k | 597 | 5.52%
£500k - £1m | 298 | 4.46%
£1m - £10m | 259 | 2.88%
Over £10m | 43 | 1.98%
Total | 7,071 | 3.68%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 6,569 | 3.84%
oscr | 1,216 | 4.91%
ccni | 480 | 6.68%
Total | 8,265 | 4.07%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £60,980,930
<strong>OneSchool Global UK</strong> [Charity number: [1181301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1181301)]<br>The main objects is the advancement of education and in particular by the provision and conduct of schools for the education of boys and girls in accordance with the religious ethos of the Plymouth Brethren Christian Church and other associated activities for the benefit of the community. | £55,480,559
<strong>OneSchool Global UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC049398](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049398)]<br>The charity's objects ('objects') are specifically restricted to: 4.1.1 the advancement of education by such means as the directors shall determine and in particular by the provision and conduct of schools for the education of boys and girls in accordance with the religious ethos of the Plymouth Brethren Christian Church and other associated activities for the benefit of the community. 4.1.2 any other charitable purpose or charitable purposes relating to or connected with Brethren which the directors may from time to time in their absolute discretion select. and 4.1.3 purposes ancillary or incidental to 4.1.1 or 4.1 .2.  | £55,480,559
<strong>COMPASSION UK CHRISTIAN CHILD DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [1077216](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077216)]<br>To advance the christian faith in all or any part of the world.The relief of poverty, suffering or distress amongst children.The education and training of children.The development of children to social and spiritual maturity. | £52,608,989
<strong>Compassion UK Christian Child Development</strong> [Charity number: [SC045059](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045059)]<br>4.1.1     To advance the Christian Faith in all or any part of the world  4.1.2     The relief of poverty, suffering or distress amongst children (including but without prejudice to  the generality the prevention of malnutrition, illness and disease)  4.1.3     The education and training of children  4.1.4      The development of children to social and spiritual maturity  4.1.5      Nothing in these Articles of Association shall authorise an application of the property of the  Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005  | £52,606,000
<strong>International Bible Students Association </strong> [Charity number: [SC046866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046866)]<br>3. The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are to advance the Christian Religion as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in particular but not exclusively by:  ( I ) Facilitating the provision of Bible-based literature and materials for religious instruction, teaching, education, and worship to Jehovah's Witnesses and the public.  (2) Maintaining one or more religious orders or communities of Jehovah's Witnesses.  (3) Distributing funds and goods to other entities that have similar aims.  (4) Engaging in acts of charity, mercy, and humanitarian aid. and  (5) Administering the property, facilities, and financial affairs of or pertaining to religious worship of Jehovah's Witnesses.  | £50,024,582
<strong>THE DAUGHTERS OF CHARITY OF ST VINCENT DE PAUL CIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052894)]<br>3.1 The objects of the CIO are for such charitable purposes as shall advance the religious and other charitable work of the Province anywhere in the world as the trustees with the approval of the Provincial shall from time to time think fit provided that: 3.1.1 the CIO's property and the income thereof shall not be applicable to advance religious or other charitable work of the Province which the trustees with the approval of the Provincial consider should be advanced by the use of other assets. and 3.1.2 if at any time the Community shall cease to exist or shall cease to carry on religious or other charitable work in the Province then for such other lawful charitable purposes connected with the Roman Catholic religion as the trustees shall from time to time determine. | £36,762,390
<strong>ALLEYN'S SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1161864](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161864)]<br>To advance education by conducting at Dulwich a day school for boys and girls in which there shall be provided a practical, liberal and religious education, including a senior school and a junior school. | £36,747,000
<strong>ST GEORGE'S WEYBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1017853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017853)]<br>The advancement of education by the provision and conduct of a school or schools for boys and girls to enable the fulfilment of their academic potential and personal development within an ethos of Christian ideals which derive from the traditions and teaching of the Roman Catholic Church and by ancillary or incidental education or religious activities for the benefit of the community. | £35,226,950
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SENEGALESE COMMUNITY TOUBA OXFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1212256](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1212256)]<br>1. TO ADVANCE THE ISLAMIC RELIGION AND MOURIDISM IN ENGLAND FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER MEETINGS, LECTURES, PUBLIC CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, PRODUCING AND/OR DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE ON ISLAM AND MOURIDISM TO ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT THE ISLAMIC RELIGION AND MOURIDISM. 2. TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY WORKING WITH PEOPLE IN ENGLAND WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED ON THE GROUNDS OF THEIR ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF OR CREED (IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY MEMBERS OF THE SENEGALESE AND GAMBIAN COMMUNITIES) TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF SUCH PEOPLE AND ASSIST THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY. 3. TO FURTHER OR BENEFIT THE RESIDENTS OF ENGLAND , IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THOSE OF SENEGALESE AND GAMBIAN ORIGIN, WITHOUT DISTINCTION OF SEX, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, RACE, RELIGIOUS OR OTHER OPINIONS BY ASSOCIATING TOGETHER THE SAID RESIDENTS AND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES, VOLUNTARY AND OTHER ORGANISATIONS IN A COMMON EFFORT TO ADVANCE EDUCATION AND TO PROVIDE FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION AND LEISURE TIME OCCUPATIONS WITH THE OBJECTIVE OF IMPROVING THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE FOR THE RESIDENTS. IN FURTHERANCE OF THESE OBJECTS BUT NOT OTHERWISE, THE TRUSTEES SHALL HAVE THE POWER TO ESTABLISH OR SECURE THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COMMUNITY CENTRE AND TO MAINTAIN OR MANAGE OR CO-OPERATE WITH ANY STATUTORY AUTHORITY IN THE MAINTENANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF SUCH A CENTRE FOR ACTIVITIES PROMOTED BY THE CHARITY IN FURTHERANCE OF THE ABOVE OBJECTS. | 
<strong>ANNE WHITAKER'S SUNDAY SCHOOL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [310803](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-310803)]<br>Religious activities | 
<strong>ANGLICAN METHODIST ASSOCIATION (BERKHAMSTED) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [280703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280703)]<br>Religious activities | 
<strong>WORLD HARVEST CHRISTIAN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1048925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048925)]<br>Activities conducted for the advancement of the Christian Faith in accordance with the Statement of Beliefs | £137,919
<strong>AOG Revival Church, Dundee</strong> [Charity number: [SC032227](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032227)]<br>The advancement of the Christian Faith by the proclamation and furtherance of the Gospel of God concerning His Son Jesus the Lord and the preaching and teaching of the Word of God under the auspices of the Assembly in accordance with the Statement of Fundamental Truths (the Statement) approved by the General Council of Assemblies of God in Great Britain and Ireland as that may be approved by the General Council from time to time. | £1,960
<strong>GLOBAL FAITH REVIVAL MISSIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1213648](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1213648)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING SERVICES FOR RELIGIOUS WORSHIP,PASTORAL CARE AND CARRYING OUT MISSIONARY AND OUTREACH WORK IN THE UK AND OVERSEAS | 
<strong>FERNDALE SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1164993](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164993)]<br>Ferndale Spiritualist Church offers to members of the public and congregation, religious activities & events. The church delivers a Divine Service on a Sunday hosted by a Medium. And the church also on Thursdays a service of Spiritualist Demonstration.  The service dates alternate. Open to members of the public and to members. | £6,622
<strong>Fountain Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC050113](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050113)]<br>2.1.1 to advance the Christian Faith primarily in accordance with the statement of Faith of the Assemblies of God, as approved by the General Council of the Assemblies of God, from time to time and in such parts of the United Kingdom, or the world, by holding regular meetings for worship as its principal activity.   2.1.2  In promoting the advancement of the Christian faith, the Assembly may include activities that to relieve sickness and financial hardship, and  promote and preserve good health, by the provision of funds, goods or services of any kind, through the provision of counselling and support in such parts of the United Kingdom or the world, as the Management Trustees from time to time think fit, and to advance education in such ways and in such parts of the United Kingdom or the world as the Management Trustees from time to time, think fit.  2.1.3  Such other charitable purposes as shall further the attainment of the above objects of the Assembly or any of them. The expression 'charitable purpose' shall mean a charitable purpose under section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the applications of the Taxes Acts.     2.1.4 the advancement of education and the promotion of a healthy and peaceful community. | £3,415
<strong>LOUGHBOROUGH UNITED REFORMED CHURCH CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1129259](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129259)]<br>The object of the Charity is the advancement of the Christian faith for the benefit of the public in accordance with the Scheme of Union of the United Reformed Church. | £126,707
<strong>AOG Central Fraserburgh</strong> [Charity number: [SC048510](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048510)]<br>The Church's purpose is the advancement of the Christian religion in Scotland and the world for the public benefit through the maintenance in North East Scotland of a body of Christian believers founded on the tradition of biblical orthodoxy which maintains that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testament are the supreme authority and rule in matters of faith and life and engaged in serving God through worship, discipling, pastoral care and outreach and other charitable purposes as are consistent with and further the attainment of the above objects. | £1,254,842
