# Church or place of worship `RL302`

Church or place of worship is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

23,265 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 11.45% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(church|worship|mosques?|christian centres?|temples?|(friends|quaker) meeting houses?|monaster(ies|y)|nunner(ies|y)|shrine|cathedrals?|chapels?|derasar|synagogues?|basadi|sacred space)\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`christchurch|school`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 5,079 | 7.15%
£10k - £100k | 8,473 | 12.07%
£100k - £250k | 4,914 | 22.04%
£250k - £500k | 1,883 | 17.27%
£500k - £1m | 775 | 11.28%
£1m - £10m | 466 | 5.12%
Over £10m | 90 | 4.03%
Total | 21,680 | 11.25%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 19,219 | 11.23%
oscr | 2,695 | 10.87%
ccni | 1,351 | 18.76%
Total | 23,265 | 11.45%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1098136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098136)]<br>UNIVERSITY OF HIGHER EDUCATION INSTITUTION, INCLUDING RESEARCH. | £319,161,000
<strong>THE ARCHBISHOPS' COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1074857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074857)]<br>Enabling, supporting, sustaining & advancing of the Church's:-worship, spiritual & numerical growth-engagement with social justice & environmental issues-work in education, lifelong learning & discipleship-selection, training and resourcing of people for public ministry & lay vocations-inherited fabric of buildings, to maintain & develop these for worship & community service. | £235,636,067
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £207,417,455
<strong>CHURCH OF ENGLAND CENTRAL SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1155158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155158)]<br>The Charity's objects are to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the National Church Institutions (NCIs), dioceses and other charities with a Church ethos by providing cost-effective shared financial, legal and other support services including payroll and also to promote the charitable purposes of the NCIs. | £130,697,000
<strong>Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Britain</strong> [Charity number: [SC046952](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046952)]<br>The objects ('the Objects') of the Charity are to advance the Christian religion as practised by the body of Christian persons known as Jehovah's Witnesses, in particular but not exclusively by: 3 .1 producing audio and video material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing, and distributing Bible literature. 3 .2 providing services and facilities for members of the Worldwide Order of Special Full-time Servants of Jehovah's Witnesses ('the Order') and such other support as deemed appropriate from time to time. 3.3 purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship, as well as for other purposes to support the Charity's objects. 3.4 engage in acts of charity, mercy, and humanitarian aid. and 3.5 distributing funds and goods to other entities that have similar aims. Nothing in the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Charity shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £120,653,380
<strong>WATCH TOWER BIBLE AND TRACT SOCIETY OF BRITAIN</strong> [Charity number: [1077961](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077961)]<br>1. Provision of facilities to assist full time ministers. 2. Producing material for Bible education, publishing, importing, exporting, recording, translating, producing Bible literature.3. Purchasing, building, and renovating properties for use by Jehovah's Witnesses as places of worship.4. Humanitarian aid. 5. Distributing funds and goods to other entities with similar aims. | £120,653,380
<strong>The Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011353)]<br>Objects: 1)  to offer Christian worship, fellowship, instruction, mission and service.     2)   to labour for the advancement of the Kingdom of God throughout the world.     3)   to bring the ordinances of religion to the people in every parish of Scotland     through a territorial ministry   | £119,434,000
<strong>TRINITY COLLEGE CAMBRIDGE</strong> [Charity number: [1137604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1137604)]<br>Provision, along with the University, of education of the highest standard for some 1100 undergraduate and graduate students; maintaining a Chapel, extensive Library, and substantial buildings; promoting research by its Fellows and students; and making grants to others with similar objects.  Although situated in Cambridge, Trinity's members come from a very wide range of areas and backgrounds. | £104,224,000
<strong>PARISH GIVING SCHEME</strong> [Charity number: [1156606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156606)]<br>PGS's principal activity is to provide the most efficient & effective way for people to financially support the activity of the Church of England locally.  This is done through a regular giving scheme which collects donations through direct debit & makes the donation (including gift aid) available to be spent in a specified church/parish within 10 days. | £102,971,848
<strong>THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (GREAT BRITAIN)</strong> [Charity number: [242451](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-242451)]<br>To promote and further the religious and other charitable work of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the United Kingdom and elsewhere. | £87,826,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Assynt Free Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC016022](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016022)]<br>The Congregation aims to maintain the public worship of God and to foster Christian fellowship. to evangelise the local area by proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ, to exercise pastoral care and practical compassion for those in need. to uphold and further the interests of the Free Church of Scotland. and to participate in the worldwide promotion of Christian fellowship and the advancement of the Christian faith. All the business and proceedings of the Congregation shall be conducted in accordance with the constitution of the Free Church of Scotland, under the supervision of the Presbytery of the bounds, and in terms of the Acts, deliverances or directions of the General Assembly of the Free Church of Scotland. | £13,650
<strong>KELD RESOURCE CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1135650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135650)]<br>We carry out our aims in the village of Keld in Swaledale, North Yorkshire. Our aims are realised by renting buildings in Keld owned by the URC and the Methodist Church. Our activities benefit residents and visiting public by restoring these buildings to new uses operated by the use of local staff and volunteers. | £48,935
<strong>Summit Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC033567](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033567)]<br>2.1. The objects of the Assembly shall be:  2.1.1. The advancement of the Christian Religion by the proclamation and furtherance of the Gospel of God concerning His Son Jesus the Lord and the preaching the teaching of the Word of God under the auspices of the Assembly in accordance with the Statement of Fundamental Truths (the Statement) approved by the General Council of Assemblies of God in Great Britain and Ireland as that may be approved by the General Council from time to time.  2.1.2. Such other charitable purposes as shall further the attainment of the above objects of the Assembly or any of them.  2.1.3. The furtherance of the work of Assemblies of God in Great Britain and Ireland, the promotion of the spiritual teaching and upholding of the Statement and the promotion of religious observances that express and set forth the Statement. | £112,585
<strong>Heirs of Abba</strong> [Charity number: [SC053981](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053981)]<br>Heirs of Abba Christian Community SCIO purposes: A. The advancement of Christianity.     - Promoting the Christian faith through education, evangelism, and community outreach     - Providing opportunities for spiritual growth, worship, and fellowship     - Supporting missionary work and charitable activities locally and globally  B. The relief of poverty.     - Providing financial assistance, food, and clothing to individuals and families in need     - Supporting charitable initiatives and organizations that address poverty and social inequality  C. The Provision of Recreational Activities and Promotion of Self-Development.     - Organizing community events, activities, and initiatives that promote social interaction, mutual support, and collective growth     - Providing educational programs, workshops, and resources that promote spiritual growth, self-awareness, and self-improvement.     - Delivering recreational activities and facilities that enhance overall well-being and quality of life. | 
<strong>NEWTON LE WILLOWS CHURCH OF ENGLAND EDUCATIONAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1003545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1003545)]<br>The Trust promotes the education of children and adults living within the ecclesisatical parish of Patrick Brompton with Hunton, and furthers the religious and charitable work of the parish church. | £7,399
<strong>FRANCHE COMMUNITY CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [701151](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701151)]<br>Franche Community Church is about building relationships which are accepting and caring, impacting and meeting needs in our community with the love of God, through pastoral ministry and practical actions.  We have been operating an independent food bank from the church plus bread distribution by recommendation only, to the many needy people including via schools in the area. | £94,029
<strong>THE CHURCH MONUMENTS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [279597](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-279597)]<br>Publication of Journal and Newsletter.Organisation of visits to churches | 
<strong>ST LAURENCE ECCLESIASTICAL CHARITIES</strong> [Charity number: [203336](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-203336)]<br>The net yearly income is paid to the Parochial Church Council of St. Laurence, Reading for the maintenance and repair of the fabric, the bells and seats of the church of St. Laurence. | £77,450
<strong>Kilmarnock Spiritualist Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC023822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC023822)]<br>The objects of the Church are to advance the religion and the religious philosophy of Spiritualism on the basis of the Seven Principles of SNU Spiritualism. | £37,419
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST LEONARDS ON SEA, ST LEONARD AND ST ETHELBURGA</strong> [Charity number: [1132025](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132025)]<br>Regular public worship open to all. Provision of sacred space. Pastoral work.  Teaching Christianity through sermons, courses and small groups.  Provision of youth clubs with a Christian ethos. Promotion of Christianity through events, meetings and literature.  Promoting the church mission through activities for senior citizens, parents and toddlers.  Supporting other charities in UK and overseas | £78,096
