# Religious education `RL304`

Religious education is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](RL.md) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

2,552 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.26% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(religious education|TALMUDIC(AL)? RESEARCH|bible (teachers?|stud(y|ies))|teachings of islam|islamic education|madrassa)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 452 | 0.64%
£10k - £100k | 948 | 1.35%
£100k - £250k | 487 | 2.18%
£250k - £500k | 180 | 1.65%
£500k - £1m | 101 | 1.47%
£1m - £10m | 60 | 0.66%
Over £10m | 12 | 0.54%
Total | 2,240 | 1.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,340 | 1.37%
ccni | 122 | 1.69%
oscr | 90 | 0.36%
Total | 2,552 | 1.26%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £60,980,930
<strong>ALLEYN'S SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1161864](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161864)]<br>To advance education by conducting at Dulwich a day school for boys and girls in which there shall be provided a practical, liberal and religious education, including a senior school and a junior school. | £36,747,000
<strong>AHMADIYYA MUSLIM ASSOCIATION UNITED KINGDOM</strong> [Charity number: [299081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299081)]<br>propagation of Islam;Building of Mosques;religious education for waqf nau children;emergency relief - natural disasters;assistance to deserving and needy; | £29,819,493
<strong>SOUTH ENGLAND CONFERENCE OF SEVENTH DAY ADVENTISTS</strong> [Charity number: [1045587](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1045587)]<br>We are a Church Organisation whose purpose is to proclaim and teach the everlasting gospel of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.  Our activities include worship services, Bible studies, youth and children's' activities including annual camps, health education, community help, a counselling service, and three Primary schools. | £29,084,018
<strong>AMUD HATZDOKOH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1122777](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122777)]<br>The objectives of     Amud Hatzdokoh  are  i) The advancement of the Orthodox Jewish faith and religious education   ii) The relief of poverty sickness and infirmity amongst members of the Jewish faith, and      iii) Other charitable purposes. | £18,594,171
<strong>CML - CHEVRAS MO'OZ LADOL</strong> [Charity number: [295818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295818)]<br>Advancement of Orthodox Jewish faith, religious education and relief of poverty. | £13,110,117
<strong>BARNARD CASTLE SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1125375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125375)]<br>THE CHARITY'S OBJECTS ARE TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF BOYS AND GIRLS BY THE PROVISION OF A  DAY AND BOARDING SCHOOL IN OR NEAR BARNARD CASTLE, COUNTY DURHAM AND TO GIVE RELIGIOUS EDUCATION IN THE SCHOOL IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES. | £12,908,578
<strong>THE RANK FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [276976](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-276976)]<br>The advancement and promotion of the Christian religion and Christian religious education of the public, advancing public knowledge of other world faiths with significant communities in the United Kingdom.  Encouraging and developing leadership amongst young people and supporting disadvantaged young people and those frail or lonely through old age and disability. | £12,523,000
<strong>THE RAPHAEL FRESHWATER MEMORIAL ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [313890](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313890)]<br>The charity promotes religious education and observance within the tenets of Orthodox Judaism and is involved in the relief of poverty. The charity makes grants to organisations and institutions which operate in the charitable fields mentioned above. | £11,695,000
<strong>THE ORATORY SCHOOLS ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [309112](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-309112)]<br>To provide for boys and girls in any part of the world. general physical, moral and religious education in accordance with Roman Catholic doctrines and practices and for that purpose to carry on and maintain The Oratory Schools. | £10,977,493


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MAKKI MASJID</strong> [Charity number: [1183925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183925)]<br>Makki Masjid is a place of worship (mosque) that Muslims attend to offer prayers in congregation five times a day.  The Masjid also offers other activities such as learning about Islam and teaching Arabic.  The Masjid also offers after school childrens' Islamic education classes and other community needs for the Muslims of the area. There are regular daily/weekly study circles and activities. | 
<strong>Fellowship of Independent Methodist Churches - Portadown</strong> [Charity number: [NI107151](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107151)]<br>We hold services of worship each Lord’s Day and a Bible Study and Prayer Meeting each week. Where available we also hold a Sunday School and Bible Class. We provide a structured programme of activities for primary school children in Weekly Bible Clubs and Summer Holiday Bible Clubs for children from within the church and outside it. We seek to reach people outside of the Christian faith as well as nurturing those who profess it, through the preaching and teaching of the Word of God, as contained in the Bible, and through pastoral support and visits. Where available we run a Mother and Toddler Group, Children’s Club and a Youth Club. Where available we host a website with information about us and our meetings together with downloadable sermons. We hold special meetings from time to time, to give a Christian perspective and for evangelistic purposes. We hold missionary meetings and endeavour to support a number of missionaries and Missionary Societies both inside and outside our denomination, and both within Northern Ireland and abroad. This support is given through prayer, encouragement and financial aid. We distribute invitations to meetings and Christian literature to homes in the area of benefit and the surrounding area. We may also seek to support individuals who find themselves in need, either at home or abroad. We also provide a structured programme for teenagers and young people both inside church premises and outside and a varied programme of activities, both social and religious, for women from within and without the church fellowship. | £63,578
<strong>CROMPTON COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1204546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204546)]<br>(1)TO ADVANCE THE RELIGION OF ISLAM BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, PROVISION OR ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES FOR WORSHIP AND ISLAMIC EDUCATION, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEACHINGS OF THE QURAN AND THE TEACHINGS OF PROPHET MUHAMMAD (PBUH) AS INTERPRETED AND ACCEPTED BY THE AHLE-SUNNAH WAL-JAMAA-AH HANAFI DEOBANDI SCHOOL OF THOUGHT;(2)TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP AMONG POOR PEOPLE AND VICTIMS OF NATURAL DISASTERS, BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, MAKING GRANTS FOR PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR ITEMS, EQUIPMENT, SERVICES AND FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE PROVISION OF FOOD AND OTHER BASIC NECESSITIES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE SAID PERSONS;(3)TO ADVANCE EDUCATION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE GENERAL PUBLIC BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, THE PROVISION OR THE ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES AND FACILITIES, SUCH AS A SUPPLEMENTARY SCHOOL;(4)TO PROVIDE OR ASSIST IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE FOR RECREATION OR OTHER LEISURE TIME OCCUPATION OF INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE NEED OF SUCH FACILITIES BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABILITY, FINANCIAL HARDSHIP OR SOCIAL CIRCUMSTANCES WITH THE OBJECT OF IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | £4,446
<strong>JAMIA DARUS SUNNAH LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1059837](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1059837)]<br>The Charity was established to advance the education of boys and girls and of the public in all aspects of Islam and to advance the Islamic religion.  The main activity has been that of running schools for Islamic education and this has not changed since the last report. | £166,715
<strong>Forthill Gospel Hall Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI107283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107283)]<br>We are committed to the service of the local population in several areas of Church life. We minister as a local church, being available to the local area and beyond as a place to worship God and praise and thank Him as a body of people for His goodness to us. We provide various services and events as the year progresses to all ages in the community such as: 1. A weekly service of worship each Sunday is open to the general public. 2. This includes regular Bible teaching for adults, and separate age-appropriate Sunday School programmes for children and young people. 3. Regular meeting for Bible study and prayer. 4. Programmes for children and young people which include games activities, arts & crafts activities, friendship opportunities and spiritual development. 5. A weekly mother and toddlers group We provide a venue for the preaching of the Good News of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a power to change lives and bring a new sense of purpose and hope to believers irrespective of age, gender, background or culture. | £21,714
<strong>THE CONGREGATION OF JOSEPHITES</strong> [Charity number: [312071](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312071)]<br>The Congregation of Josephites aims to support such charitable purposes which advance the Roman Catholic religion and religious education and other charitable works carried on by members of the Congregation and to care for those members throughout their lives who have committed themselves to the Congregation. | £645,879
<strong>WELWYN ISLAMIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1155040](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1155040)]<br>Running charitable events for the local community in the Welwyn Garden City including holding of prayers meetings, lectures, public celebration of religious festivities, producing or distributing literature to enlighten the general public on Islam. Islamic education for the young in the local community. | £48,556
<strong>GLOUCESTER EVANGELICAL PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1199200](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199200)]<br>Gloucester Evangelical Presbyterian Church exists to lead the community in worshipping the Lord Jesus Christ, and to advance the Christian faith for the benefit of all. We meet in Gloucester weekly on Sundays for morning and evening worship, and on Wednesdays for Bible study, prayer, and fellowship. Fortnightly on Fridays we also run a club for young people to enjoy food, games, and Bible study. | £34,271
<strong>SALVATION CHRISTIAN CHURCH OF GOD</strong> [Charity number: [1210091](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210091)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN FAITH THROUGHOUT LONDON IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENT OF FAITH FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER MEETINGS AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION, PUBLIC CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, CHRISTIAN OUTREACH AND PASTORAL CARE IN THE LOCAL COMMUNITY.  | 
<strong>AL-MARKAZUL-ILMI</strong> [Charity number: [1102900](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102900)]<br>The object and activities of the trust are to establish and operate an institution for the advancement of education in both secular and the Islamic faith. | £219,488
