# Parochial Church Council `RL303`

Parochial Church Council is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

2,966 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.47% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(parochial church council)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 106 | 0.13%
£10k - £100k | 723 | 1.13%
£100k - £250k | 1,452 | 7.72%
£250k - £500k | 428 | 4.81%
£500k - £1m | 136 | 2.43%
£1m - £10m | 29 | 0.38%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.06%
Total | 2,875 | 1.51%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,966 | 1.75%
ccni | nan | nan%
oscr | nan | nan%
Total | 2,966 | 1.47%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF HOLY TRINITY WITH SAINT PAUL ONSLOW SQUARE AND SAINT AUGUSTINE SOUTH KENSINGTON</strong> [Charity number: [1133793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133793)]<br>HTB IS A CHURCH OF ENGLAND PARISH CHURCH IN THE DIOCESE OF LONDON WITH A LARGE CONGREGATION OFFERING CHARITABLE SERVICES TO THE LOCALITY AND WIDER LONDON AREA. WE HOLD 11 SUNDAY SERVICES AS WELL AS FAMILY LIFE COURSES; CHILDREN'S, YOUTH AND STUDENTS WORK; HOMELESS PROJECTS; ADDICTION PROGRAMMES; PASTORAL SUPPORT; AND OTHER CHRISTIAN EVENTS, COURSES AND MINISTRIES. | £11,706,047
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST HELEN, BISHOPSGATE</strong> [Charity number: [1131501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131501)]<br>Sunday and midweek services, Bible study groups, Sunday School, youth group, stay-and-play mums and toddlers group, Christianity Explored courses, apprentice training programme, prison ministry | £4,786,044
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ALL SOULS, LANGHAM PLACE, LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1132882](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132882)]<br>All Souls welcomes over 2,300 people to its weekly Sunday services from a wide international and multi cultural backgroundWe run some 75 fellowship groups and a range of smaller groups serving the Christian development of its members and run a number of community led initiatives including a ministry to the homeless.We have over 38 mission partners in cross cultural work in the UK and overseas. | £4,015,599
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARTIN-IN-THE-FIELDS, LONDON</strong> [Charity number: [1133936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133936)]<br>Responsible for the management of the church and all its related activities.Mission Statement:  St Martin-in-the-Fields exists to honour God by being an open and inclusive church, that enables people to question and discover for themselves the significance of Jesus Christ. | £3,884,633
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARYLEBONE WITH HOLY TRINITY ST MARYLEBONE</strong> [Charity number: [1129435](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129435)]<br>The principal function of St Marylebone PCC is co-operating with the Rector in promoting in the ecclesiastical parish the whole mission of the Church, pastoral, evangelistic, social and ecumenical. | £2,775,571
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF HACKNEY</strong> [Charity number: [1158545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158545)]<br>Sunday and midweek worship as part of the Church of England. Mission and outreach activities include a weekly Foodbank in association with Hackney Food Bank, a winter night shelter and Credit Union. Other activities include outreach to youth and children, and pastoral care for people within the parish. | £2,771,142
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF GREYFRIARS READING</strong> [Charity number: [1129381](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129381)]<br>Worship and associated activities | £2,675,379
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF BATH ABBEY WITH ST JAMES, BATH</strong> [Charity number: [1134081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134081)]<br>The Parochial Church Council co-operates with the Rector and other members of the clergy in promoting in the parish the whole mission of the Church. | £2,629,963
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF BRIGHTON, ST PETER</strong> [Charity number: [1146642](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146642)]<br> Regular public worship open to all. The provision of sacred space for personal prayer and contemplation. Pastoral work. Teaching of Christianity through sermons, courses and small groups. The provision of a youth club with a Christian ethos. Promotion of Christianity through the staging of events and the distribution of literature. Supporting other charities in the UK and overseas. | £1,930,032
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST ALDATES, OXFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1131154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131154)]<br>Regular public worship open to all.The provision of sacred space for personal prayer and contemplation.Pastoral work, including visiting the sick and the bereaved.Teaching of Christianity. Promotion of Christianity through the staging of events and meetings and the distribution of literature.Promoting the whole mission of the Church through the provision of activities for various groups. | £1,806,347


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MICHAEL & ST GABRIEL HAMWORTHY</strong> [Charity number: [1163697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163697)]<br>Hamworthy PCC has the responsibility of co-operating with the incumbent, Revd Stuart Goddard, in promoting in the ecclesiastical parish the whole mission of the church, pastoral, evangelistic, social and ecumenical. It also has maintenance responsibilities for the Church Centre complexes of St Michael's and St Gabriel's in Hamworthy and governance responsibilities for St Gabriel?s Pre-School. | £332,507
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF SALTBURN BY THE SEA</strong> [Charity number: [1131197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131197)]<br>WE HOLD SERVICES OF WORSHIP AT OUR CHURCH INCLUDING PRAYER, BIBLE TEACHING AND MUSIC. WE HOLD REGULAR COMMUNITY OUTREACH ACTIVITIES AND SUPPORT OTHER CHARITIES. | £147,465
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST VIGOR WITH ALL SAINTS, FULBOURN</strong> [Charity number: [1162261](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162261)]<br>Regular public worshipFacilities for personal prayerPastoral work including visiting the sick and bereavedChristian teaching in church, schools and the communityPromotion of Christianity through staging events & meetings and provision of literaturePromoting the mission of the Church of England eg by providing a drop in centre,community lunches, supporting a toddler group | £102,870
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF FORDHAM & EIGHT ASH GREEN</strong> [Charity number: [1131590](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131590)]<br>Regular public worship open to all.  The provision of sacred space for personal prayer and contemplation.  Pastoral work.  Teaching of Christianity. Provision of youth and children's groups.  Promotion of Christianity. Promoting the whole mission of the Church through the provision of activities for senior citizens, parents and toddlers.  Supporting other Gospel based charities. | £211,503
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST PETER, BURNHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1129189](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129189)]<br>St Peter's PCC has the responsibility of co-operating with the Vicar and other clergy allocated to St Peter's Church in promoting the whole mission of the church, pastoral, evangelistic, social and ecumenical; both within the ecclesiastical parish and across the wider area of the Jubilee River Group of Anglican parishes. | £108,959
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST. EDWARD THE CONFESSOR MOTTINGHAM</strong> [Charity number: [1164675](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164675)]<br>St. Edward's Church, Mottingham is a Church of England parish and church committed to welcome and inclusion. We aim to serve the local community through use of our resources, people and buildings as a hub for a range of activities and support including community meals, a foodbank, youth work, toddler groups, sport and exercise, cultural activities daily worship and other spiritual activities. | £265,964
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF BIBURY WITH WINSON AND BARNSLEY</strong> [Charity number: [1185185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185185)]<br>Provision of religious activities | £152,591
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF THE GOOD SHEPHERD, COLLIER ROW, ROMFORD</strong> [Charity number: [1134080](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134080)]<br>The PCC and Leadership Team have adopted the Vision Statement 'Tomorrow can be different for us all'.With this in mind we look to serve and be involved in the local community, bringing the the light and love of Christ to those around us, working with children in local schools, adults through various groups that meet both in the Church building, as well as offsite. | £209,855
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST MARY'S NORTHCHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1130418](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130418)]<br>St Mary's is committed to enabling as many people as possible to worship at our church and to become part of our parish community. All are welcome to attend our regular services and our community is able to celebrate and thank God at the milestones of the journey through life. The activities and extent of all those activities are described in our Annual report. | £107,040
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF SEER GREEN AND JORDANS</strong> [Charity number: [1175583](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175583)]<br>The primary object of the PCC is the promotion of the Gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ according to the doctrines and practices of the Church of England. Holy Trinity's PCC has the responsibility for co- operating with the incumbent in promoting, in the ecclesiastical parish, the whole mission of the church ?pastoral, evangelistic, social and ecumenical. | £87,426
