# Religious ministry `RL305`

Religious ministry is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Religion](/data/ukcat/RL) categoryand the Religious activities subcategory.

6,238 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.10% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(ministr(y|ies)|evangel(ism|ist|ical)|missionar(y|ies)|dawah|proselyti(s|z)e|preaching)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,464 | 1.77%
£10k - £100k | 2,652 | 4.09%
£100k - £250k | 971 | 5.02%
£250k - £500k | 359 | 3.96%
£500k - £1m | 156 | 2.71%
£1m - £10m | 195 | 2.45%
Over £10m | 31 | 1.67%
Total | 5,828 | 3.04%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 5,157 | 3.05%
oscr | 721 | 2.84%
ccni | 360 | 5.06%
Total | 6,238 | 3.10%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHURCH COMMISSIONERS FOR ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1140097](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1140097)]<br>Promoting the mission and ministry of the Church of England especially by supporting poorer dioceses with ministry costs, providing funds to support mission activities, paying for bishops' ministry and some cathedral costs, administering the legal framework for pastoral reorganisation and closed church buildings, paying clergy pensions for service prior to 1998 and running the clergy payroll. | £148,127,625
<strong>THE ARCHBISHOPS' COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1074857](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074857)]<br>Enabling, supporting, sustaining & advancing of the Church's:-worship, spiritual & numerical growth-engagement with social justice & environmental issues-work in education, lifelong learning & discipleship-selection, training and resourcing of people for public ministry & lay vocations-inherited fabric of buildings, to maintain & develop these for worship & community service. | £128,092,018
<strong>The Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC011353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011353)]<br>Objects: 1)  to offer Christian worship, fellowship, instruction, mission and service.     2)   to labour for the advancement of the Kingdom of God throughout the world.     3)   to bring the ordinances of religion to the people in every parish of Scotland     through a territorial ministry   | £110,643,000
<strong>THE LONDON DIOCESAN FUND</strong> [Charity number: [241083](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-241083)]<br>The principal activity of the London Diocesan Fund is to serve and support the parishes and people within the Diocese of London in their mission of proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ. It does this operationally through the payment and housing of parish clergy and chaplaincies and support to their ministry. | £47,800,000
<strong>UNITED REFORMED CHURCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1133373](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133373)]<br>The provision of public worship in viable congregations through England, Wales and Scotland carried out through faithful ordained and lay ministry in our churches.  Our main charitable activities are: ministry, education & learning, youth & children's work and mission.  This latter includes: supporting local community service, and fostering ecumenical and interfaith relationships at all levels. | £34,087,000
<strong>THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND PENSIONS BOARD</strong> [Charity number: [236627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-236627)]<br>Provides the best possible support and care, within available resources, to those who have retired from stipendiary and lay ministry within the Church of England, and to their dependants, through the provision of retirement and supported housing, and through discretionary grants to ensure beneficiaries have a minimum income standard. | £29,066,000
<strong>THE SOUTH LONDON CHURCH FUND AND SOUTHWARK DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249678)]<br>Resourcing the Ministry and Mission in every parish   Managing the number of clergy in post against budget, and collecting Fairer Shares contributionsProviding clergy training, housing, stipends, pension supporting parish based ministryContributing to national church institutionsProviding education & social outreach fundingProviding Diocesan Retreat House | £29,011,000
<strong>The Presbyterian Church In Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI104483](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104483)]<br>Comment on matters of public importance from a Biblical perspective, issue statements on church policy relevant to the public domain. Maintain relationships with local, regional and national government, make representations and respond to consultations on relevant issues. Develop relationships with other Church bodies, charities, secular organisations and civic society. Monitor inter-church bodies of which the Presbyterian Church in Ireland is a member. Provide nominations to education and other state bodies where the Church is a stakeholder. Select, train and develop full and part-time ministers, offer pastoral care to them and their families. Select, train and support deaconesses and oversee their deployment. Maintain and manage Union Theological College, a third-level institution and a recognised College of Queen’s University, Belfast. Provide a conciliation service for church members. Resource presbyteries and congregations in worship; discipleship, nurture & teaching, pastoral care, world mission; and evangelism, outreach and good relations in the community and workplace. Enable the development of ministry among: youth and children; women; young adults; families. Provide marriage and counselling services. Provide support for local congregations in finance, health & safety and personnel issues. Develop strategic priorities in all-age mission in Ireland. Enable new church development and church planting. Support chaplaincy services in the Forces, Healthcare, Prisons, Universities and Colleges. Undertake overseas mission, develop partnerships with overseas Churches, send personnel overseas. Promote world development issues and facilitate thinking on issues of global concern. Deliver a social witness service to the wider community in partnership with appropriate organisations. Undertake policy development and administration of the Taking Care programme for the protection of children and vulnerable adults. Support a ministry to those with hearing impairment. | £27,296,095
<strong>Down And Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £24,914,000
<strong>THE CHELMSFORD DIOCESAN BOARD OF FINANCE</strong> [Charity number: [249505](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-249505)]<br>1. Mission & Ministry in the Parishes - paying clergy stipends incl pension contribs, providing & maintaining houses for clergy & training clergy & other parish officers.2. Education - providing support for head teachers & governors, facilitating capital expenditure on schools & sponsoring certain schools with Academy status.3.Contributions to NCIs4. Provision of the Diocesan Retreat House | £24,842,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>PETROS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048273](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048273)]<br>Medical students fees in Rwanda. . School building in rural Zambia. Self help groups in Kenya.   Supporting people working with young people in UK and in Africa.in Christian evangelism and ministry.  Healing the wounds of ethnic conflict.  Relief and development in poorest countries. Local church support in Wales. | £40,909
<strong>Ballylane Reformed Presbyterian Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI106231](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106231)]<br>The Church carries out its purpose by promoting weekly public worship services and Bible Study meetings. The Church also runs special meetings for the public at which the teaching of the Word of God will be made known. The Church also provides opportunities for fellowship and will give advice, counsel and support to members and the public. The Church carries out missionary and outreach work. It also undertakes training of students for the Christian Ministry through the Reformed Theological College. | £53,933
<strong>THE CHRISTIAN AND MISSIONARY ALLIANCE</strong> [Charity number: [802990](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-802990)]<br>Promote the Christian Faith in all parts of the world. Supporting church planting in the UK and abroard. Undertaking humanitarian aid within the framework of Chritianity. | £65,497
<strong>FREE METHODIST CHURCH, GREAT ECCLESTON</strong> [Charity number: [514361](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-514361)]<br>We are a family church, committed to serving God, one another and our community. Our mission is to see lives transformed by God's grace and power. On Sundays we come together to worship, hear the preaching of God's word and enjoy fellowship. There is a Sunday school and creche for the children. We have a mid-week prayer meeting, parent and toddler group, kidz club and youth club. | £52,360
<strong>LIVING WORD MINISTRIES INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1069490](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069490)]<br>The advancement of the Christian faith, releave of poverty in places of need, support of other ministries 1. To establish and maintain churches for Christian worship and services. 2. Preaching and teaching the word of God with accordance of the holy bible. 3. Reaching out to the local community through Evangelism. 4. Bible school training. 5. Reaching out through mission. 6 Distribution of Christi | £31,595
<strong>WATER OF LIFE INTERNATIONAL CHRISTIAN DEVOTIONS & PUBLICATION MINISTRY</strong> [Charity number: [1168746](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168746)]<br>Publication of Christian journals, tracts, magazines, books and holding Christian seminars on prophetic reality, water of digest and teaching on writing skill. To also distribute Christian tracts and other materials for both devotional and educational purposes. | £5,000
<strong>THE INASMUCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1186258](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186258)]<br>The objects of the trust are to:i. Relieve sickness, old age and poverty,ii. To advance the Christian faith by, but not limited to, the provision of homes, refuges, rest homes and community homes primarily but not exclusively for retired Christian workers, and persons in need, engaged in Christian ministry or in training for Christian ministry and Christian work. | £15,400
<strong>Kingsbarns Parish Church of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC012192](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012192)]<br>Objects: 1)  to offer Christian worship, fellowship, instruction, mission and service.      2)   to labour for the advancement of the Kingdom of God throughout the world.      3)   to bring the ordinances of religion to the people in every parish of Scotland  through a territorial ministry   | £13,582
<strong>Montrose Baptist Fellowship</strong> [Charity number: [SC052239](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052239)]<br>The Purposes are the advancement of religion, specifically the Christian faith, primarily in Angus and also throughout Scotland and the rest of the world, by all means consistent with the Christian Bible. In doing so the Church subscribes to the Declaration of Principle of the Union as set out in the Appendix. In pursuing these purposes the Church will engage in a variety of activities including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, worship, ministry, mission, witness, prayer, fellowship, networking, education, community service and the provision of activities and facilities for the community, and the relief of poverty and other social needs, including the support of individuals and other charitable organisations and agencies involved in any or all of these. | 
<strong>CHARLES CHIRISERI MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1180919](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1180919)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN FAITH FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENTS OF FAITH AND THE CHARLES CHIRISERI INTERNATIONAL MINISTRIES BIBLICAL DOCTRINES APPEARING IN THE SCHEDULE.• TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN FAITH FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENTS OF FAITH AND THE CHARLES CHIRISERI MINISTRIES BIBLICAL DOCTRINES APPEARING IN THE SCHEDULE.• THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC, MAINLY BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY,BY MEANS OF BROADCASTING BIBLICAL MESSAGES OF AN EVANGELISTIC, TEACHING AND SIMILAR NATURE TO THE PUBLIC IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.• TO ADVANCE THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION, IN THE UNITED KINGDOM AND GLOBALLY, FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER AND WORSHIP MEETINGS, PROVISION OF COUNSELLING SERVICES, LECTURES, PUBLIC CELEBRATION OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, CONFERENCES, PRODUCING AND/OR DISTRIBUTINGLITERATURE ON CHRISTIANITY TO ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT THE CHRISTIAN RELIGION.• TO CONDUCT TRAINING WORKSHOPS, HOST CONFERENCES, SHARE BIBLE BASED RESOURCES, AND ENTER INTO PARTNERSHIPS WITH THE AIM OF CONTRIBUTING TO THE SPIRITUAL AND MORAL EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC AND NURTURING THEM INTO TRANSFORMATIONAL LEADERS, THAT ARE ABLE TO POSITIVELY IMPACT THEIR FAMILIES, COMMUNITIES AND THEIR CITIES THROUGH THE SHARING OF THE GOSPEL OF THE LORD JESUS CHRIST.• TO CONDUCT RELIGIOUS CEREMONIES SUCH AS THE CELEBRATION OF MARRIAGES OR FUNERALS AND PROVIDING COMFORT TO THE BEREAVED, FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE STATEMENTS OF FAITH AND THE CHARLES CHIRISERI MINISTRIES BIBLICAL DOCTRINES APPEARING IN THE SCHEDULE.• TO CONTRIBUTE TOWARDS A BETTER SOCIETY BY ENCOURAGING AND PROMOTING CHRISTIAN VALUES,MORAL EXCELLENCE AND PROMOTING SOCIAL COHESION AND SOCIAL CAPITAL FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC. | 
