# Medical research `RS101`

Medical research is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Research](/data/ukcat/RS) category.

1,053 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.52% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((clinical|medical|disease) .* (trials|studies|study|research(ers)?)|(trials|studies|study|research(ers)?).* (clinical|medicine|disease)|RCT|random(ised)?( control)? trials?|clinical studies)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 301 | 0.36%
£10k - £100k | 297 | 0.46%
£100k - £250k | 97 | 0.52%
£250k - £500k | 73 | 0.82%
£500k - £1m | 57 | 1.02%
£1m - £10m | 130 | 1.69%
Over £10m | 35 | 1.99%
Total | 990 | 0.52%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 778 | 0.46%
oscr | 251 | 0.99%
ccni | 24 | 0.34%
Total | 1,053 | 0.52%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £225,300,000
<strong>Marie Curie</strong> [Charity number: [SC038731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038731)]<br>The Charity is established as a memorial to the late Marie Curie in lasting tribute to her life’s work, and in particular to her discovery of radium and its contribution in fighting the disease of cancer. The charity exists to serve all those with a terminal diagnosis, from cancer or other causes, their families and carers. The objects for which the charity is established for the public benefit are:  2.1.1 to provide and develop caring services, offering support, care and compassion through palliative care, advice and assistance for the benefit of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers.  2.1.2 to undertake and fund research into any aspect of the care and support of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses and their families and carers. and  2.1.3 to provide information, education and support to patients, their families, carers, those working in medical and other caring fields and the public regarding the care of people suffering from terminal cancer and other terminal illnesses. | £170,016,000
<strong>TRUSTEES OF THE LONDON CLINIC LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [211136](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-211136)]<br>The provision of medical care to patients and the sick and the promotion and advancement of scientific research, good clinical practice and training. | £153,412,000
<strong>The HALO Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037870)]<br>A. The relief of poverty, sickness, suffering and distress throughout the world, in particular by the provision of hydrological, engineering and other works and medical aid with particular emphasis on the care and rehabilitation of non-combatant victims in areas where there is human conflict and the provision of assistance in the removal of debris of military hardware which may be a direct threat to non-combatants in hazerdous areas where hostilities have ceased. B. To carry out or conduct or to assist in carrying out or conducting any research into the special problems arising from injuries sustained by noncombatants in hazardous areas and into methods of alleviating suffering arising therefrom and to publish the useful results of any such research. Provided always that in discharging the foregoing objects, it is hereby declared that the Company shall discharge and carry out its objects without recourse to any political stance or viewpoint whether party political or otherwise with the sole aim of relieving such poverty, sickness to distress. | £89,884,000
<strong>GREAT ORMOND STREET HOSPITAL CHILDREN'S CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1160024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160024)]<br>Great Ormond Street Hospital Children's Charity undertakes fundraising activities in order to invest in development, research and innovation, welfare and clinical development projects, medical equipment and capital infrastructure, all of which will enhance Great Ormond Street Hospital's ability to transform the health and well being of children and young people. | £68,451,000
<strong>Emms Nazareth</strong> [Charity number: [SC032510](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032510)]<br>The relief of sickness, poverty or suffering by the establishment, maintenance etc of Medical Missions in accordance with Christian principles and in conformity with Christ's own example and command 'Heal the sick, and say unto them, 'The Kingdom of God is come night unto you'' in Israel and/or elsewhere. (b) the advancement of the Christian religion throughout the World. and (c) the advancement of the education and in particular the education of the general public throughout the World as to the teachings, life and times of Jesus of Nazareth. (d) the advancement of education by the teaching of all aspects of medicine and medical sciences and the promotion of medical science and medical research | £63,364,000
<strong>UK Biobank Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039230](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039230)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to protect, preserve and advance all or any aspects of the health and welfare of human beings and to advance and promote knowledge and education by engaging in, encouraging and supporting: (i) investigations into the separate and combined effects of genetic, environmental (including lifestyle, physiological and environmental exposures) and other factors on human health and welfare and on the risk and causation of diseases in the human population. (ii) the establishment, holding, operation, management, promotion, support, expansion, improvement and safeguarding of a collection of biomedical, biochemical, epidemiological, genetic and other data and blood and other biological and biochemical samples obtained and developed through, for the purpose of andlor in connection with some or all of the investigations referred to in paragraph (i) and pertaining to a cohort of human Participants ('Data and Samples'), for use in a research, knowledge and information resource provisionally known as the UK Biobank ('the Resource'). (iii) research into biological and medical sciences and other disciplines which may contribute to the improvement of human health and welfare ('the Biosciences'). (iv) the discovery, invention, improvement, development and application of treatments, cures, diagnostics and other medicinal agents, methods and processes that may in any way relieve illness, disease, disability or disorders of whatever nature in human beings. and (v) the study and understanding of any of the Biosciences. | £62,733,234
<strong>Anthony Nolan</strong> [Charity number: [SC038827](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038827)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are: 2.1 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those with blood cancers or other blood disorders or affected by an immunological deficiency and any similar or related diseases or conditions (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.2 the relief, treatment, cure or support of those who require a stem cell transplant or who are affected by any disease or condition that may be relieved, treated or cured by any organ or stem cell transplant (including the provision of support to their family members or carers).  2.3 the advancement of research into the causes of and the diagnosis, relief, treatment or cure of those requiring a stem cell transplant or who are affected by an immunological deficiency or any similar or related diseases or conditions and to publish the useful results of such research. and  2.4 the advancement of research into improving organ or stem cell transplantation or any related technique or technology and to publish the useful results of such research.  | £53,539,000
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £47,410,527
<strong>ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR NEURO-DISABILITY</strong> [Charity number: [205907](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205907)]<br>The Royal Hospital for Neuro-disability is an independent, national, not-for-profit medical charity.  It is not part of the NHS.  It seeks through the provision of specialist services and research to enable people with profound or complex disabilities resulting from damage to the brain or other areas of the nervous system, to enjoy an optimal quality of life through enhanced independence. | £43,169,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>T1INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1168249](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168249)]<br>International advocacy of type 1 diabetes issues; Promoting high standards of research related to type 1 diabetes and access to medicine/care; Providing information and support related to type 1 diabetes; Providing grants and resources to other charities, organisations or medical centres working with people with type 1 diabetes. | £257,317
<strong>THE SOCIETY OF CLINICAL PSYCHIATRISTS RESEARCH FUND</strong> [Charity number: [269593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269593)]<br>Raise money to help to advance research in PsychiatryHelp people with Auspergers and Autistic Spectrum with a place to work and develop | £8,900
<strong>THE BRITISH ORTHODONTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1073464](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073464)]<br>Offer reliable information on orthodontics for patients, public and health authorities through publications, website, and media.Provide professional education for orthodontists through Conferences and Meetings.Advance knowledge by funding orthodontic research through the BOS Foundation, Clinical Audit and Awards programmes, and publishing the Journal of Orthodontics. | £1,178,066
<strong>DAVID AND VERA LEVI MEDICAL RESEARCH MEMORIAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [313853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313853)]<br>Originally founded for the advancement of education and relief of poverty of any person engaged in medical research, the Charity now makes grants for charitable purposes generally. | £8,061
<strong>Inverclyde Surgical Education And Research Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC003731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003731)]<br>For the general advancement of knowledge by medical research and education by whatever means primarily but not exclusively by the conduct of clinical trials and the publication and dissemination of the results of such research and in furtherance thereof the purchase, hire, lease and acquisition of equipment, materials and labour for and the payment of travelling and subsistence expenses incurred in connection with such medical research and education. | £1,125
<strong>ROYAL HOSPITAL FOR NEURO-DISABILITY</strong> [Charity number: [205907](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205907)]<br>The Royal Hospital for Neuro-disability is an independent, national, not-for-profit medical charity.  It is not part of the NHS.  It seeks through the provision of specialist services and research to enable people with profound or complex disabilities resulting from damage to the brain or other areas of the nervous system, to enjoy an optimal quality of life through enhanced independence. | £43,169,000
<strong>Ronald Percy Edwards Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037793)]<br>The object of the Trust shall be:- (1) The advancement of education and more specifically the Trustees shall implement that object by (i) paying the whole or such part of the free income of the Trust Fund and also the whole or such part of the capital of the Trust Fund all as the Trustees from time to time may consider it desirable to assist young Scottish individuals to undertake studies or projects in medicine, dentistry or the veterinary sciences at such universities, places of education or elsewhere and that whether in Scotland or elsewhere as may appear to the Trustees to be appropriate. (2) To pay the whole or such part of the free income of the Trust Fund and also the whole or such part of the capital of the Trust Fund as the Trustees from time to time may consider desirable for such other charitable purposes or to such charitable institutions, societies, trusts and foundations as the Trustees may in their absolute discretion select, declaring for the avoidance of doubt that all organisations to which such payments are made shall constitute charitable bodies as determined under the Law of Scotland from time to time. | £102
<strong>St.Columba’s Hospice Care</strong> [Charity number: [SC003634](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003634)]<br>7 The Hospice is established for Charitable Purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland and elsewhere, and in particular the Hospice is established  7.1 to promote the relief of suffering (so far as such object is a Charitable Purpose) in such ways as the Hospice shall from time to time think fit, and including (but without prejudice to the generality of such object)- a) by the provision of palliative nursing, medical and other supportive care services for persons (without regard to race or creed) who are suffering (at any age) from any chronic or terminal illness or from any disability or disease attributable to old age or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease, , such care services to be provided at the Hospice or in any other facilities or in the homes of such persons. b) by conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability, disease or infirmity as aforesaid and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or terminal illnesses. c) by providing or assisting in the teaching or training of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or  supportive care services, and in the teaching or training of students in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or - supportive care services. d) by establishing, maintaining and conducting out-patients' departments for the provision of support, advice,  care and treatment, whether by conventional means or otherwise, of persons suffering from any such illness, disability, disease or infirmity as aforesaid. and by arranging and providing transport to enable such persons to attend or make use of the same. e) by organising, administering and providing community care services by way of support, advice, care and treatment to patients and their families by conducting visits to the homes of such patients and their families for such purposes and! or within any other facilities. and f) by the provision of pastoral care services for the spiritual welfare and support of patients, their families and staff at the Hospice or at any other facilities or in the homes of such patients.  | £8,742,819
<strong>SOUTH EAST LONDON AND WEST KENT IA</strong> [Charity number: [1038754](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1038754)]<br>TO HELP ANYONE IN  SE LONDON & WEST KENT AND ELSEWHERE WHOSE COLON HAS BEEN OR IS TO BE REMOVED BY SURGERY OR WHO HAS AN ILEOSTOMY OR INTERNAL POUCH TO PROMOTE RESEARCH INTO BOWEL DISEASE AND CONDITIONS LEADING TO THE REMOVAL OF THE COLON PROMOTE THE DISSEMINATION OF KNOWLEDGE TO KEEP MEMBERS AND OTHERS INFORMED OF MATTERS OF INTEREST IN ANY MANNER WHICH THE TRUSTEES DEEM APPROPRIATE | £264
<strong>Ileostomy and Internal Pouch Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC048658](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048658)]<br>2. Objects 2.1 The Charity's objects are: 2.1.1 To help anyone whose colon has been, or is about to be, removed by surgical procedure or who has an ileostomy or an internal pouch. 2.1.2 To promote and co-ordinate research into bowel disease and other conditions leading to the removal of the colon, surgical procedures pertaining thereto, and related matters, and further to promote the dissemination of knowledge gained by such research. 2.1.3 To keep ileostomists and others informed of all matters of interest to the Charity by the periodic dissemination of information by way of publications, by arranging conferences, seminars and courses on topics of interest, and in any other manner which is charitable and which the trustees consider appropriate.  | £468,095
