# Philosophy `RS102`

Philosophy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Research](/data/ukcat/RS) category.

342 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(philosoph(y|ers)+)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 114 | 0.15%
£10k - £100k | 117 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 33 | 0.16%
£250k - £500k | 13 | 0.13%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.26%
£1m - £10m | 19 | 0.22%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 313 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 279 | 0.16%
oscr | 55 | 0.22%
ccni | 8 | 0.11%
Total | 342 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Goodenough College</strong> [Charity number: [SC039173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039173)]<br>The objects for which the College is established are to organise, encourage and assist the education in England of students ('Resident members of the College') from any part of the world, giving preference to students from The Commonwealth (with priority for students from those nations less able from time to time to provide resources and facilities of their own) Provide that : for the purposes of this memorandum of association the expression 'student' shall mean and include all persons, both male and female, who for the purposes of education in any branch of knowledge, thought, philosophy or endeavour, or for any other related or connected purpose shall require residential accommodation or other services whilst resident in the United Kingdom for those purposes. | £16,389,000
<strong>British Association for the Advancement of Science</strong> [Charity number: [SC039236](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039236)]<br>Whereas in the year One thousand eight hundred and thirty-one a Voluntary Association known as the British Association for the Advancement of Science was formed to give a stronger impulse and a more systematic direction to scientific inquiry. to promote the intercourse of those who cultivate Science in different parts of the British Empire with one another and with foreign philosophers. to obtain more general attention for the objects of Science and the removal of any disadvantages of a public kind which impede its progress. | £6,839,054
<strong>The Fellowship of the School of Economic Science</strong> [Charity number: [SC039950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039950)]<br>1.	Objects The objects of the Fellowship are: - (1)	To promote understanding of the natural laws governing humanity through the study and practice of philosophy and economics and any other relevant subject, including the laws, customs and practices by which communities are governed. (2)	To disseminate by all lawful means knowledge of the matters referred to in (1) hereof. (3)	To promote any art or science, to produce, print, publish and circulate any periodicals, books and works of art. (4)	To organise a School for the furtherance of these objects, such School to be known as the School of Philosophy and Economic Science. (5)	To advance for the public benefit education in the United Kingdom and in particular by establishing or maintaining or assisting one or more schools for children. (6)	For the furtherance of these objects or any of them: - (a)	to acquire, hold and deal in any land or chattels or any right or interest therein. (b)	to raise, hold invest and expend any funds. (c)	to maintain for the use of members and students lending and reference libraries. (d)	to promote or acquire any interest in any company, irm or association for the advancement of any of these objects. (e)	subject to such consents as may be required by law to borrow and raise money for the furtherance of the objects of the Fellowship in such manner and on such security as the Executive Committee may think it.  (f)	to do any other lawful act or thing incidental or conducive to any of these objects, provided that neither the Executive Committee nor any member shall identify the Fellowship with any political party or person notably active in any political party. | £5,254,000
<strong>THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE SCHOOL OF ECONOMIC SCIENCE</strong> [Charity number: [313115](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-313115)]<br>The School of Philosophy & Economic Science offers courses in Philosophy, Economics and other subjects founded on spiritual principles expressing the natural laws applicable to humanity as discerned from the world's major spiritual and philosophical teachings. It also promotes arts & sciences through lectures, seminars and concerts, and supports other charities with similar activities and objects. | £5,254,000
<strong>MARTHA TRUST HEREFORD LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1053448](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1053448)]<br>Martha Trust has two care homes for people with profound and complex disabilities. Each home has 14 bedrooms offering lifelong care. It is our philosophy that all residents should enjoy every day of their lives. We offer various activities including:- aromatherapy, hydrotherapy, music, physiotherapy, occupational and speech and language therapy. | £4,695,782
<strong>EAST CHESHIRE HOUSING CONSORTIUM LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1001923](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001923)]<br>To provide supported and residential housing services, primarily for people with mental health needs and for people who require support to enable them to live within the community. Our philosophy is to provide a range of support services to enable tenants to maintain and improve their quality of life and independence. | £3,910,340
<strong>STAINES PREPARATORY SCHOOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [296691](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296691)]<br>The Trust is established to promote and provide for the advancement of education of children.  The Staines Prep philosophy of providing a high quality education whilst keeping fees at competitive levels ensures access to the widest possible cross section of the community, so that they may benefit from the School's teaching and facilities. | £3,877,932
<strong>The Spiritualists National Union</strong> [Charity number: [SC041714](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041714)]<br>The objects ('the objects') for which the Union is established are- To promote the advancement and diffusion internationally but particularly in the United Kingdom of a knowledge of the religion and religious philosophy of Spiritualism and such other charitable activities as the Trustees shall from time to time determine. Spiritualism is generally understood to recognise, and for the purposes of these Articles shall be considered as recognising, the following principles:- 1. The Fatherhood of God. 2. The Brotherhood of Man. 3. The Communion of Spirits and the Ministry of Angels. 4. The Continuous Existence of the Human Soul. 5. Personal Responsibility. 6. Compensation and Retribution Hereafter for all the Good and Evil Deeds done on Earth. 7. Eternal Progress Open to every Human Soul. and in these Articles the words 'Spiritualism' and 'Spiritualist' shall be construed accordingly.  | £3,652,894
<strong>Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [SC040512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040512)]<br>To promote the advancement of the Hindu Religion and other religions of the world To promote the advancement of education by educational courses programmes and projects and studies of and research in the field of Hindu Religious Philosophy and Yoga (various techniques of concentration as defined and discussed in the Hindu Scriptures) and to make known the results of such studies and research To relieve poverty, mental and physical sickness and distress, and to promote the mental, spiritual or moral improvement of the community' | £3,429,956
<strong>KRISHNAMURTI FOUNDATION TRUST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [312865](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312865)]<br>To advance the education of the public in philosophy, sociology, psychology and comparative religion and in particular to promote in those fields the study of the teachings of Jiddu Krishnamurti. | £3,429,368


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE NORTHWICH U3A</strong> [Charity number: [1113103](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113103)]<br>Educational and Leisure activities for older people.These include Reading groups, Music, Gardening, Walking, Bridge, Canasta, Theatre, Local/Social History, Crafts, Current Affairs, Geology, Bowls, Art Appreciation, French, Modern Philosophy, Talks on various subjects, and Social gatherings. | £7,819
<strong>ANJUMAN-E-HAMIDI (MANCHESTER)</strong> [Charity number: [1080156](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080156)]<br>The practising of the Islamic religion in conformity with al-Quran, Islamic Shariat and the Fatemi (Fatimid) philosophy, culture & traditions, all as interpreted by al-Dai al-Mutlaq. The advancement of education, the relief of need, hardship and distress, the provision of facilities for the recreation and other leisure time occupations of the community, in particular the Dawoodi Bohra Jamaat. | £589,347
<strong>SAKYA DECHEN BUDDHISM LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1163076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163076)]<br>The charity provides courses and facilities relating to Buddhist philosophy, meditation and ethics as taught and practised in the Sakya tradition of Tibetan Buddhism. | £198,577
<strong>THE LAM RIM BRISTOL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294470](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294470)]<br>The Lam Rim Bristol Trust seeks to reduce the suffering of all beings through the provision of a quiet Centre for meditation and reflection, with guidance in Buddhist philosophy and practice. Through support of the ordained community, there is mutual benefit for lay people and monks and nuns. The centre is supported holistically by an Alternative Health Centre. | £6,113
<strong>SOCIETY FOR APPLIED PHILOSOPHY</strong> [Charity number: [287331](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287331)]<br>The object of the Society is the advancement of public educationin the field of applied philosophy and the publication of itsproceedings to the end. | £182,323
<strong>THE ANALYSIS TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1195108](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195108)]<br>To pursue the advancement of the systematic study of philosophy, including by publishing the journals Analysis and Analysis Reviews, and by making grants for scholarship and research in philosophy. | £69,396
<strong>Scotland Alevi Bektasi Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC040104](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040104)]<br>The advancement of citizenship and community development in order to help its members, their families and their community integrate and participate in the social and political processes in Scottish society The advancement of human rights, reconciliation , racial and religious harmony between its members and the wider Scottish and UK society The advancement of the education of its members, their families and community living in Scotland. To help prevent and address the effects of poverty and isolation faced by its members, their families and the community particularly in relation to new migrants, refugees and asylum seekers The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and philosophy of the Association its members and community it serves. The provision of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for its members, their families and community, particularly around health and social welfare for children and young people. To advance opportunities for its members in the establishment of social enterprises, skills development and self sufficiency. To develop cultural links between the Turkish and Alevi Bektasi Diaspora, particularly between Turkey, UK, Scotland and Europe To act as an umbrella organization and representative group for its members and community's interest when dealing with local, national and UK governments and their departments, their polices and practices To work in partnership with third sector agencies, community groups, local authorities and Government bodies and initiatives in order to further these objectives | £29,216
<strong>The Fellowship of the School of Economic Science</strong> [Charity number: [SC039950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039950)]<br>1.	Objects The objects of the Fellowship are: - (1)	To promote understanding of the natural laws governing humanity through the study and practice of philosophy and economics and any other relevant subject, including the laws, customs and practices by which communities are governed. (2)	To disseminate by all lawful means knowledge of the matters referred to in (1) hereof. (3)	To promote any art or science, to produce, print, publish and circulate any periodicals, books and works of art. (4)	To organise a School for the furtherance of these objects, such School to be known as the School of Philosophy and Economic Science. (5)	To advance for the public benefit education in the United Kingdom and in particular by establishing or maintaining or assisting one or more schools for children. (6)	For the furtherance of these objects or any of them: - (a)	to acquire, hold and deal in any land or chattels or any right or interest therein. (b)	to raise, hold invest and expend any funds. (c)	to maintain for the use of members and students lending and reference libraries. (d)	to promote or acquire any interest in any company, irm or association for the advancement of any of these objects. (e)	subject to such consents as may be required by law to borrow and raise money for the furtherance of the objects of the Fellowship in such manner and on such security as the Executive Committee may think it.  (f)	to do any other lawful act or thing incidental or conducive to any of these objects, provided that neither the Executive Committee nor any member shall identify the Fellowship with any political party or person notably active in any political party. | £5,254,000
<strong>CLITHEROE PROGRESSIVE SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1207652](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1207652)]<br>Our aims and objectives are the same as our Governing body The Spiritualist National Union and are to advance the religion and the religious philosophy of Spiritualism on the basis of the Seven Principles. We aim to help our members and congregation to progress in all aspects of spirituality. We are non-discriminatory and welcome all members of the public. | 
<strong>Peace Advocate Project Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC049839](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049839)]<br>4 The Objects for which the company is established are: 1. The advancement of conflict resolution by encouraging a conflict resolution philosophy in young people in countries across the world and enabling young people and adults to become 'Peace Advocates'. 2. The advancement of education by training and accrediting facilitators to create and organize 'Peace and Conflict Resolution' groups in schools and communities and promoting equal status for life skills (such as conflict resolution skills) in the school curriculum. 3. The advancement of citizenship by liaising and building local and global networks to promote a culture of peace and enabling ?Peace and Conflict Resolution? groups to identify problems in their community that can be tackled using conflict resolution skills. 4. The advancement of health by promoting the knowledge and understanding of the impact of mental health on behaviour and offering skills to allow young people to take control of their mental health problems and empower them to improve their own health and that of others.  | £1,649
