# Science `RS103`

Science is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Research](RS.md) category.

4,262 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.10% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(scien(ces?|tific)|stem|mathematics)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,285 | 1.80%
£10k - £100k | 1,370 | 1.96%
£100k - £250k | 362 | 1.64%
£250k - £500k | 205 | 1.90%
£500k - £1m | 164 | 2.45%
£1m - £10m | 332 | 3.69%
Over £10m | 128 | 5.89%
Total | 3,846 | 2.00%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,512 | 1.47%
oscr | 1,714 | 6.92%
ccni | 36 | 0.50%
Total | 4,262 | 2.10%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF LONDON FOR IMPROVING NATURAL KNOWLEDGE (COMMONLY KNOWN AS THE ROYAL SOCIETY)</strong> [Charity number: [207043](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207043)]<br>The Royal Society has three roles: A learned society; The UK's Academy of Science; And as a funding agency. We- Promote science and its benefits- Recognise excellence in science- Support outstanding science- Provide scientific advice for policy- Foster international and global cooperation- Provide education and public engagement | £396,290,000
<strong>RASPBERRY PI FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1129409](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129409)]<br>The object of the charity is to further the advancement of education of adults and children, particularly in the field of Computers, Computer Science and related subjects | £233,304,000
<strong>QUADRATURE CLIMATE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1187301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187301)]<br>QCF is an independent foundation focused on the urgent challenge of climate change, funding innovative, science-led solutions that reduce carbon emissions, remove greenhouse gases from the atmosphere and help the world's most vulnerable people respond to the impacts of climate change, all in pursuit of a climate-resilient future. | £221,729,288
<strong>Historic Environment Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC045925](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045925)]<br>(1) Historic Environment Scotland has the general function of investigating, caring for and promoting Scotland?s historic environment. (2) In exercising its general function, Historic Environment Scotland has the following particular functions? (a) identifying and recording the historic environment, (b) understanding and interpreting the historic environment, (c) learning about, and educating others about, the historic environment, (d) protecting and managing the historic environment, (e) conserving and enhancing the historic environment. (3) Historic Environment Scotland also has the function of managing its collections as a national resource for reference, study and research. (4) In exercising that function, Historic Environment Scotland has the following particular functions? (a) preserving, conserving and developing its collections, (b) making the collections accessible to the public and to persons wishing to carry out study and research, (c) exhibiting and interpreting objects in the collections.  | £136,984,000
<strong>The Royal Horticultural Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC038262](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038262)]<br>The objects of the Society are the encouragement and improvement of the science, art and practice of horticulture in all its branches. | £124,804,000
<strong>THE ROYAL HORTICULTURAL SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [222879](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-222879)]<br>The RHS was founded in 1804 to inspire passion and excellence in horticulture.  We want to enrich everyone's life through plants, and make the UK a greener and more beautiful place.  To achieve our aim we undertake scientific research; provide education, training and horticultural advice; support community horticulture projects; and share our renowned gardens and shows with the public. | £124,804,000
<strong>WWF-UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039593](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039593)]<br>The Charity's objects ('the Objects') are 3.1 the promotion of conservation of the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources and ecological processes, to include without limitation, fauna and flora, water, soils and other natural resources. and 3.2 the promotion of education in nature conservation, the natural environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. and 3.3 the promotion and support of scientific and educational studies, research and projects and publication of scientific and educational works. | £92,466,000
<strong>NATIONAL OCEANOGRAPHY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1185265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1185265)]<br>NOC is a marine science research and technology institution which undertakes integrated sea level science, coastal and deep ocean research and technology development. NOC contribute to the advancement of scientific knowledge of the ocean and support education and training of scientists, engineers and marine professionals and engaging the public with the science of the ocean and its implications. | £86,213,000
<strong>National Oceanography Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC049896](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049896)]<br>The company's objects are restricted specifically, in each case only for the public benefit to:  4.1.1 the advancement of science, in particular enhancing the scientific knowledge and understanding of oceanographic sciences, and the ocean and its interaction with the earth system, and facilitating the use and application of that knowledge and understanding, particularly by:  4.1.1.1 undertaking and causing to be undertaken research including through technology development, experimentation, analysis, long-term ocean observation, monitoring, mapping, survey and modelling of a high international standard and disseminating the useful results of research.  4.1.1.2 Providing access to scientific research and technology development facilities and infrastructure including research ships and other measurement platforms and systems to the ocean science community.  4.1.1.3 Obtaining, managing, curating and providing access to digital data, samples and other specimens.  4.1.1.4 Being the UK national focus for ocean science, exercising leadership for and promoting co-operation with the wider United Kingdom science community, and providing national and international visibility and expert representation for oceanographic sciences.  4.1.1.6 Innovation or by encouraging and supporting innovation.  4.1.2 The advancement of education in oceanographic sciences, and the ocean and its interaction with the earth system and relationship with people, particularly by:  4.1.2.1 Contributing to the education (particularly postgraduate higher education), training and development of the next generation of scientists, engineers, technologists including the supervision of postgraduate research students.  4.1.2.2 Supporting the building of marine research scientific and technical capacity in other countries around the world.  4.1.2.3 Communicating with and engaging with the public in relation to ocean science and technology through seminars, talks, leaflets, papers and other means.  | £86,213,000
<strong>Edinburgh Merchant Company Education Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC009747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009747)]<br>The Education Board?s Charitable Purposes are: (a) the advancement of education, particularly the education and advancement of children and young people. (b) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science.  (c) the advancement of public participation in sport.  (d) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and (e) the advancement of citizenship or community development. | £84,994,162


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>RCN Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC043663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043663)]<br>3. The objects of the Charity are: 3.1. to promote the science and the art of nursing and the better education and training of persons providing nursing and health and social care and their efficiency in the profession of nursing including those who are students.  3.2. to promote the advancement of nursing as a profession in all or any of its branches.   3.3. to promote through the medium of international agencies and otherwise the foregoing purposes in other countries.   3.4. to relieve and prevent charitable need of persons providing nursing in health and social care including those who are students, those who have retired and the dependents of any such persons.  | £1,193,000
<strong>ANTHONY NOLAN</strong> [Charity number: [803716](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-803716)]<br>Anthony Nolan saves the lives of people with blood cancer. By growing our register of stem cell donors, conducting research and providing outstanding support to patients, Anthony Nolan cures people's blood cancer and blood disorders. But we need to do more. Without you, there is no cure. | £70,788,000
<strong>SOUTH LONDON FAMILIES REUNITED ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1108078](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108078)]<br>The charity objects are to:? Relieve the poverty and hardship within people in the community. ? Advance the education of the members and to facilitate the provision and access to training on basic skills in English and         Mathematics.  ? Provide recreational and leisure activities to reduce social isolation or distress.? Deliver health and nutrition information to the the community. | £1,500
<strong>Kirkcaldy Photographic Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC053975](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053975)]<br>The principle purpose of the Society is the advancement of the art, heritage, culture and science of photography. | 
<strong>Belladrum Festival Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC054123](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054123)]<br>The SCIO will provide grants for the following purposes within the boundaries of the Kiltarlity Community Council, Kirkhill and Bunchrew Community Council, the Beauly Community Council, and the Belladrum Estate. a) The advancement of community development and citizenship b) The advancement of education c) The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture, and science d) The advancement of environmental protection and improvement,including the preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement, or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic, or other importance to the Community e) The provision of recreational facilities and activities available to the Community and to members of the public at large, with the object of improving the conditions of live of the Community. f) The prevention or relief of poverty g) the advancement of public participation in sport h) the advancement of animal welfare. and i) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantage. | 
<strong>Glenbuchat Hall SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC050467](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050467)]<br>The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended'   The Advancement of Citizenship or Community Development  The Advancement Of The Arts, Heritage, Culture or Science  It will   4.1. Own, manage and maintain community assets and facilities, including  Glenbuchat Hall, Bothy and the surrounding land, for the benefit of the residents of Glenbuchat and the surrounding area.  4.2. Organise, promote and encourage educational, cultural and leisure activities, to  enhance the community, and to improve the lives of residents of Glenbuchat and the surrounding area  4.3. Encourage and develop the traditions, culture and heritage of Glenbuchat and the surrounding area  4.4. Respect, preserve and improve the natural and built environment of Glenbuchat | £11,570
<strong>Biggar Community Action Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC050562](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050562)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture, or science (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage And in furtherance of these purposes the organisation?s objects are Plan and take action on behalf of our community Respond quickly and flexibly to the needs of the community as they arise Identify people who are vulnerable by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantage and develop ways to support them Promote healthy living and good mental health amongst residents of the town Be a reliable source of information for the community about matters that have an impact on it, using social media, a website, newsletters, and any other communication channels considered appropriate Develop and carry out plans to promote community resilience which encourage speed of response, and calm, rational responses, liaising with other community groups as appropriate To work in partnership with other organisations in the town   | £14,903
<strong>Alchemy Film and Arts </strong> [Charity number: [SC042142](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042142)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to champion the development of the arts, predominantly but not exclusively in the Scottish Borders and beyond. We aim to engage the people of the Scottish Borders, in particular its young people, visitors to the region and its creative residents in high quality arts experiences, thus generating creative, cultural and economic benefit for the region. We aim to stimulate local talent, social and community cohesion, and engage people with the unique Borders landscape and heritage, thus enriching their quality of life, and in furtherance of those objects:  4.1 To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science in the Scottish Borders, predominantly but not exclusively, particularly by the practice, knowledge, understanding and appreciation of visual arts, music, literature, performance, film and crafts (hereinafter known as the arts) and not excluding other art forms as may be relevant.  4.2 To advance education through the arts and to promote, maintain and improve education through the arts.  4.3 To promote equality and diversity through the arts, and to increase the accessibility of the arts to the public throughout the region by providing facilities for the presentation and practice of the arts. | £398,902
<strong>HADLEIGH AFTERNOON WOMENS INSTITUTE</strong> [Charity number: [1025194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1025194)]<br>To enable women who are interested in issues associated with rural life, including arts crafts and sciences,to improve & develop conditions of rural life. To advance education in citizenship, & other cultural subjects & in agriculture, handicrafts, home economics, health and social welfare. Women are given the opportunity to work together to put into practice the ideals of the organisation. | £7,541
<strong>WORD OF LIFE CELEBRATIONS CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1168912](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168912)]<br>General Charitable Purposes,Education/training,The Prevention Or Relief Of Poverty,Food bankReligious Activities.Economic/community Development/employment,Human Rights/religious Or Racial Harmony/equality Or Diversity.Recreation,Arts/culture/heritage/science,Other Charitable Purposes.Who:Children/young People,Elderly/old people.People With Disabilities | £38,458
