# Residential care `SC106`

Residential care is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](/data/ukcat/SC) category.

775 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.38% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(residential care|sheltered housing|residential homes?|care homes?|old age home|(home|accommodation) for (the elderly|the old|old people|elderly people))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 192 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 159 | 0.24%
£100k - £250k | 90 | 0.46%
£250k - £500k | 40 | 0.44%
£500k - £1m | 58 | 1.01%
£1m - £10m | 156 | 1.96%
Over £10m | 51 | 2.75%
Total | 746 | 0.39%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 688 | 0.41%
oscr | 57 | 0.22%
ccni | 30 | 0.42%
Total | 775 | 0.38%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £142,814,877
<strong>SUE RYDER</strong> [Charity number: [1052076](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052076)]<br>Provide specialist palliative care in our hospices and in patients' homes.Provide specialist long term neurological care in our residental care homes.Provide health and social support via community services. | £112,754,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL AUTISTIC SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [269425](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-269425)]<br>Campaigning and lobbying.Raising Awareness.Day and residential schools with outreach.Registered adult care homes, plus supported living.A diagnosis and assessment centre, and diagnostic training.Resource Centres.Family support.Social groups.Early intervention and post diagnosis support.Helpline.Education Rights and Welfare Rights services.Supported Employment.Information. | £95,633,000
<strong>MACINTYRE CARE</strong> [Charity number: [250840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-250840)]<br>MacIntyre provides services for adults and children with learning disabilities. These services include schools, colleges, adult learning centres, registered care homes, supported living and other individual support. | £65,883,000
<strong>THE WHITGIFT FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [312612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312612)]<br>The charity has three independent schools in the Croydon Area. Fee assistance is provided to over 500 pupils by way of a means tested bursaries scheme.The charity also runs two care homes and Almshouses providing full care,residential care and sheltered accommodation to the elderly in the region. | £63,475,551
<strong>THE ROYAL MASONIC BENEVOLENT INSTITUTION CARE COMPANY</strong> [Charity number: [1163245](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163245)]<br>The main activity is the provision of 1096 registered beds for Residential, Dementia, and Nursing care in 17 Care Homes throughout England and Wales. In addition the Charity runs approximately 145 sheltered units for those who seek independence and can still look after themselves. Many of these tenants later become residents in the Homes. | £54,482,000
<strong>GREENSLEEVES HOMES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1060478](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060478)]<br>The provision of nursing and residential care, comfort and security to elderly men and women, at an economic price that reflects our charitable status. | £53,662,254
<strong>ENABLE Communities Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC049060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049060)]<br>4.1 The objects of the Company are (i) the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability or other disadvantage. (ii) the advancement of health. and (iii) the advancement of citizenship and community development through the promotion of the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. and in furtherance of those objects but not otherwise:-  (a)   to support and promote the interests and welfare of people with learning disabilities or communication difficulties, physical disabilities, hearing and visual impairment, or other illness and disability, including working to meet their needs, development their capabilities and enable and encourage them to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives.  (b)  to promote mutual help, support, co-operation and understanding  amongst people with all forms of illness and disability, and their relatives and friends and those providing services to them.  (c)   to promote and encourage the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people with all forms of illness and disability, their families and carers including the provision of special forms of housing and residential care and support to beneficiaries (in particular amongst those who have more profound disabilities).  (d)   to encourage research into the causes, treatment and management of all kinds of illness and disability and to disseminate the useful results of such research. (e)  to provide support and companionship to enable beneficiaries to pursue their interests and take part in leisure activities.  (f)  to create and deliver personalised, community based support to adults and children.    | £53,604,537
<strong>CARE SOUTH</strong> [Charity number: [1014697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014697)]<br>Care South provides quality care services in the south of England to up to 2000 people each day.  All aspects of care including dementia, nursing, frailty and special needs are provided to people either in Care South's care homes or in their own homes. | £46,739,000
<strong>Quarriers</strong> [Charity number: [SC001960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001960)]<br>2.1 To promote the relief and advancement of life opportunities for those faced with and affected by disadvantage through disability, addiction, chronic and/or terminal illness, mental infirmity, financial hardship and/or poverty and homelessness through person centred care and support in such ways as the company shall from time to time think fit without regard to race, nationality, creed, age, gender, or sexual orientation and without geographical restriction and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):  (a) By establishing, maintaining and conducting residential care and other support services for the reception and care of persons who are suffering from any chronic and/or terminal illness or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons.  (b) Providing practical care and support of persons suffering from the effects of disability, chronic and/or terminal illness, poverty or suffering (such persons being hereinafter referred to as “the People We Support”) which care and support may include, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of counselling and emotional, therapeutic, financial, educational and domiciliary support, the provision of information, advice and training, the provision of nursing and medical services, the provision and facilitation of accommodation, the provision and facilitation of vocational training and employment services and/or other training to the People We Support.  (c) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research and evaluation into the care, welfare and support of the People We Support and the dissemination of knowledge.   Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £45,837,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF ST PHILIP & ST JAMES, ODD DOWN, BATH & WELLS</strong> [Charity number: [1131533](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131533)]<br>Parish Church.  Weekly Services & worship. Families,youth & children's,older people's groups. Halls used by local groups. Drama. Monthly luncheon club for live alone. Mission work and support in our community and abroad.  Link to local NHS St Martin's Hospital, local primary schools, food bank and private nursing home for the elderly.  Community mini-bus with support from local council (B&NES). | £211,050
<strong>UK FRIENDS OF TOSE CARE HOME ZIMBABWE (FOR PEOPLE WITH LEARNING DISABILITIES)</strong> [Charity number: [1049554](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049554)]<br>Fund Raising activities | £3,640
<strong>GPM CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [227177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227177)]<br>The Charity continued to work with the Bookbinders Charitable Society on a refurbishment project for applicants in sheltered housing. The Trustees have continued to promote the objects of the Charity through organisations connected with the Graphical, Paper and Media industries | £24,751
<strong>HEBRON HALL LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [514184](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-514184)]<br>The promotion of the Christian Gospel through the provision of residential accommodation for the elderly, conference resources and leisure facilities. | £1,608,858
<strong>The Hope Foundation For Street Children</strong> [Charity number: [SC038809](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038809)]<br>The Charitable Purposes of the Foundation ('the Charitable Purposes') are to promote, develop and provide services and support for the health, welfare, education and housing of street children, former street children, slum dwellers and their respective families, principally in India and elsewhere in the world and, only in connection therewith, the following relative purposes: (a) to promote and provide residential care and structures of social support. (b) to manage and maintain support centres, residential and otherwise: (c) to provide counsel and services, including micro-credit so as to improve the socio-economic status of street children, former street children, slum dwellers and their respective families. (d) to provide technical assistance, support and relief in emergencies. (e) to engage in research. and (f) to advocate and lobby for rights of street children and slum dwellers. | £484,824
<strong>THE LILLIAN HINTON MEMORIAL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [503859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-503859)]<br>Provision of additional comfort or comforts and help for residents at Sandiway Manor residential care home. | £6,146
<strong>Braveheartsni</strong> [Charity number: [NI101055](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101055)]<br>A charity to provide for and support teenagers and young adults and their families in NI who have Congenital or acquired heart disease. Once a child with CHD turns 14 they are transitioned into the adult congenital cardiac service where they remain in limbo until they are 18. They are too young to be admitted into the adult hospital and therefore must wait until a private room becomes available before they can receive treatment. BraveheartsNi, identifies and supports the needs of patients and their families living with congenital and acquired heart disease (CHD) in Northern Ireland. BraveheartsNi will support the patients and their families from their transition period of 14 years old when they move from the children’s cardiac service into the adult service (ACHD). We will provide patients what they need when they need it to ensure that their daily journey living with this disease is supported and the burdens lessened. As volunteers all monies raised will be used to provide for the CHD community and educate society as to their needs and reach out to others facing the disease on their own. We will endeavour to raise funds to provide research opportunities for the CHD team in NI. We will fundraise to provide a teenager ‘chillout’ area within the adult hospital where the can relax within an environment that is supportive of their young needs. A young teenager with CHD devised BraveheartsNi after spending many months trudging through this process in NI and meeting another young boy who was in the adult cardiac room for over 3 months and who came from a care home. He had no visitors, general bedtime/washing equipment and the room had no TV or any facilities a young boy would need. He went into a very deep depression and with the help of the Liaison nurse and the other teenager he started to thrive with the interaction of a befriending service and his personal needs and some spending money were provided for him | £55,345
<strong>WATFORD AND DISTRICT MENCAP SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1004431](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1004431)]<br>Watford Mencap currently provides the following services:Residential Homes, Supported Living and Individualised Living , Learning and Leisure, Children's Activities Clubs and Playschemes, Community Support, Domiciliary Care, Day and College Activity Schemes, Advice and InformationThese services are provided to over 800 service users in Watford, Three Rivers and Hertsmere | £2,949,431
<strong>FRIENDS OF MILLINER HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1175636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175636)]<br>Milliner House is a purpose built 40 bedded care home offering Dementia, Residential and Mental Health care. The Friends aim to improve the quality of life of the residents of the care home by working with staff, residents and relatives. | 
<strong>PILGRIM HOMES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1183226](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183226)]<br>THE CHARITY OWNS CARE HOMES AND HOUSING SCHEMES PROVIDE FOR THE BENEFIT OF PROTESTANT CHRISTIANS. | £2,112,000
