# Children's homes `SC104`

Children's homes is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](SC.md) category.

599 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.29% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(children'?s?'? homes?|orphanages?|home for (children|orphans|street children))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 237 | 0.33%
£10k - £100k | 236 | 0.34%
£100k - £250k | 56 | 0.25%
£250k - £500k | 17 | 0.16%
£500k - £1m | 14 | 0.21%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.28%
Total | 576 | 0.30%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 531 | 0.31%
ccni | 38 | 0.53%
oscr | 30 | 0.12%
Total | 599 | 0.29%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £326,134,178
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £326,134,000
<strong>BIRTENSHAW</strong> [Charity number: [1092798](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092798)]<br>Birtenshaw  operates a special school, college, eight specialist children's homes, including a short break centre, and provides domiciliary care & therapies.The charity supports children, young people and young adults who have a moderate to severe  learning disability, including Autistic Spectrum conditions and those with a significant physical disability/impairment including complex health needs. | £23,304,142
<strong>HOLLYBANK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1043129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1043129)]<br>The provision of education, therapy, medical support and residential care for children and adults with profound and complex physical disabilities in a specialist school ,children's home and adult homes. | £19,002,869
<strong>SUNFIELD CHILDREN'S HOMES LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [527552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-527552)]<br>Sunfield is a residential school for children with severe learning difficulties and autism | £12,947,988
<strong>THE NATIONAL YOUTH ADVOCACY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1012485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1012485)]<br>NYAS is a socio-legal charity providing advice, advocacy, information and legal advice to children, young people and vulnerable adults.  NYAS also provides Independent Visitors who befriend children in care, and we undertake Regulation 44 visits of children homes. Under Rule 16.4 of the Family Proceedings Act we represent children and young people in private law family proceedings. | £10,774,395
<strong>EXETER ROYAL ACADEMY FOR DEAF EDUCATION</strong> [Charity number: [1124523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124523)]<br>The operation of a School which educates students aged 5 to 16 years and a Further Education College providing post 16 education. Both the School and College offer residential and day placements to deaf young people. The Charity also operates a Children's Home for deaf young people. | £7,883,181
<strong>CATHOLIC CARE (DIOCESE OF LEEDS)</strong> [Charity number: [513063](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-513063)]<br>For over 150 years Catholic Care has been providing flexible solutions to social challenges across Yorkshire. We deliver a wide range of services including residential and supporting living for adults with learning disabilities and mental health issues, a residential care home for children, social work and children's mental health services, and a variety of community services. | £5,816,720
<strong>MERCY IN ACTION</strong> [Charity number: [1096068](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1096068)]<br>MERCY IN ACTION WORKS IN THE PHILIPPINES IN CEBU AND MINDANAO AMONGST THE POOREST OF THE POOR. WE CURRENTLY SEND AROUND 400 CHILDREN TO SCHOOL AND COLLEGE & RUN 3 CHILDREN'S HOMES. WE HAVE FEEDING PROGRAMMES AND A DROP IN CENTRE FOR STREET CHILDREN, BUILD HOMES FOR DESTITUTE FAMILIES AND PROVIDE GRANTS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES. 'FEEDING THE HUNGRY TODAY; EQUIPPING THEM FOR TOMORROW'. | £5,751,932
<strong>PURPOSE OF LIFE</strong> [Charity number: [1165627](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165627)]<br>Helping the vulnerable in the UK including young children, homeless and the elderly.Helping the Rohingyans in the Bangladesh Camps through water pumps, Schools, Women Centre, Orphanages, Food Packages, Blankets etc.Water wells, Schools, Food packages, Orphanages in PakistanHelping Orphanages in South AfricaHelping the needy in Palestine.Educational Centre in Jordan.Food Packs in Yemen. | £2,580,403


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>A FISH FOR LIFE</strong> [Charity number: [1134866](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1134866)]<br>To help underprivileged, vulnerable children by providing means of safe shelter and education. In 2010 we completed a project in Kenya where we sent a team of skilled tradesmen over to the Fururah Orphanage to build them a new Girls Dormitory, the Charity funded this entire project and is still funding eduction to some of the children at the Orphanage. | 
<strong>EXETER ROYAL ACADEMY FOR DEAF EDUCATION</strong> [Charity number: [1124523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124523)]<br>The operation of a School which educates students aged 5 to 16 years and a Further Education College providing post 16 education. Both the School and College offer residential and day placements to deaf young people. The Charity also operates a Children's Home for deaf young people. | £7,883,181
<strong>Chernobyl Aid Newry</strong> [Charity number: [NI101821](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101821)]<br>Chernobyl Aid Newry provides humanitarian aid to those in need in Belarus, the country worst affected by the Chernobyl disaster. A group travels to Belarus twice yearly to carry out renovation and building projects such as improving kitchens, dining halls, bedrooms and bathrooms in various asylums orphanages and elderly people's institutions, providing a purpose built day care center for special needs children and work shop facilities for older kids in orphanages and the building of a halfway house to enable some residents to live semi independently outside the asylum structure in Belarus. We also provide medical care to those in need both in the community and in the institutions. This could range from providing money for medication, dressings, wheelchairs, equipment such as special beds and mattresses, blood pressure monitors or thermometers, incontinence pads or nappies.We have measured, fitted and provided prosthetic limbs for a number of people in the community. We provide social care to those individuals or families living in the community who require help. This could involve buying food and clothing, paying for housing rent or paying and sourcing respite care for those in need. We pay for and supply duvets to large institutions to keep those in need warm in the severe winters of Belarus. We have bought and renovated a house to provide accommodation for homeless families until we help them to get things sorted. Only those who have the necessary skills required for a particular project are taken out e.g we might need builders at one particular time but need joiners or plasterers at a different time. The medical team consists of a nurse and a pharmacist and sometimes a chiropodist. A prosthetic technician has accompanied us when required. We plan in advance what project or part of a project we are working on next and fund raising is them aimed at that.We handed over a fully furnished house for six people to live outside the asylum in October 2016. | 
<strong>SAVE A MILLION LIVES</strong> [Charity number: [1115828](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115828)]<br>We assist in the relief of suffering children & their families who are living with or are affected by HIV/AIDS. Support initiatives designed to educate the public into causes treatment research & ways of coping and the prevention of HIV/AIDS. Raising funds for the construction development of an orphanage & a school 's IT training suite utilising renewable energy sources to power the suite in Ghana | £1,714
<strong>Tanzania Christian Farm Development Trust (NI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI100160](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100160)]<br>For realisation of the above prescribed objectives, the Trust shall utilise every possible means consistent with the law, and particularly it shall: Elevate and develop the economic condition and welfare of the people by training and increasing their knowledge and skills Introduce and develop the production of good seed, animal husbandry, dairy produce and foodstuffs Develop modern farming activities Introduce and develop crop farming skills programmes Purchase, operate and maintain machines for processing agricultural products Develop vocational training workshops Encourage programmes of discipleship and standards of behaviour which are in accord with the Christian Faith Educate, train and equip persons pledged to the furtherance of the objectives Manage a Children's Home to offer orphaned children or those with complex family situations a safe and caring home Co-operate with charities, voluntary bodies and statutory authorities operating in furtherance of the Objects or similar charitable purposes and exchange information and advice with them Establish training centres or other health, educational, social or economic establishments otherwise support, promote or administer the said establishments Seek help from Churches, Christian organisations, scholars, businessmen and other who prove to be willing to help effectively Encourage Christians to volunteer their services either in person or by donating money to the Trust Utilise the press and other media, i.e. radio, television, newspapers, magazines, books and other publications to reach Christians and other persons Make and adopt action plans in the light of priorities that are decided upon by the Trust Carry out scientific studies in order to identify problems facing people and thus find the most appropriate solutions for them. | £198,610
<strong>ALIYAH HIGHWAYS</strong> [Charity number: [1094773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1094773)]<br>relief for people of the jewish faith, such relief to include but not limited to support children in orphanages, in needy families, widows, elderly and to support those making Aliyah.  Advancement of education of jewish history, culture and religion, provision of social and welfare facilities for the forementioned. | £85,543
<strong>SETTLE CHRISTIAN FELLOWSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1052053](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1052053)]<br>Regular giving to a variety of charities providing help to people in this country and those providing overseas aid, supporting children in orphanages(paying for their schooling and general living expenses) and missionaries who are working in Africa and India. We hold weekly church meetings and serve as a venue for inter-church activities in the local area. | £26,431
<strong>SUZANNE'S MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1115648](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115648)]<br>To advance education and relieve persons who are in a condition of need, by equiping young men with training and bicycles to go out to remote villages, to bring relief teaching to help bring them out of poverty, and by providing orphanages and schools in deprived and remote areas in the World.  To provide a UK based retreat for Christians to explore and renew their faith. | £14,272
<strong>THE NATIONAL YOUTH ADVOCACY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1012485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1012485)]<br>NYAS is a socio-legal charity providing advice, advocacy, information and legal advice to children, young people and vulnerable adults.  NYAS also provides Independent Visitors who befriend children in care, and we undertake Regulation 44 visits of children homes. Under Rule 16.4 of the Family Proceedings Act we represent children and young people in private law family proceedings. | £10,774,395
<strong>TRINITY FELLOWSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1018143](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1018143)]<br>Trinity Fellowship Trust is based in Handsworth, Birmingham.  The Trust continues to support Living Waters Community Church (LWCC) in their outreach charity work in India (orphanage) & Uganda (primary schools). Recent Community based activities include a twice-weekly programme aimed at supporting black and minority ethnic elderly people and more recent work targeting high-risk vulnerable women. | £3,404
