# Domiciliary care `SC105`

Domiciliary care is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](/data/ukcat/SC) category.

215 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.11% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(dom(iciliary)? care|domiciliary|home care|care at home|home and respite care|care.*in their own homes|home visiting service)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 21 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 28 | 0.04%
£100k - £250k | 27 | 0.14%
£250k - £500k | 22 | 0.25%
£500k - £1m | 13 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 72 | 0.94%
Over £10m | 27 | 1.56%
Total | 210 | 0.11%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 183 | 0.11%
oscr | 18 | 0.07%
ccni | 14 | 0.20%
Total | 215 | 0.11%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [296645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296645)]<br>Alzheimer's Society staff and volunteers provide services to people affected by dementia, including day care and home care, support and befriending services across England, Wales, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Northern Ireland. We provide information and training, and every year we invest in research. We campaign for the rights of people with dementia and those who care for them. | £111,115,000
<strong>CARE SOUTH</strong> [Charity number: [1014697](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014697)]<br>Care South provides quality care services in the south of England to up to 2000 people each day.  All aspects of care including dementia, nursing, frailty and special needs are provided to people either in Care South's care homes or in their own homes. | £47,752,000
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation; (b) day care; (c) holidays and respite care; (d) domiciliary assistance; (e) advocacy; (f) education; (g) medical or nursing care; (h) financial and personal management and advice; and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £47,410,527
<strong>THE AVENUES TRUST GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1130473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130473)]<br>The Avenues Group pioneers specialist social care that supports individuals facing disadvantage through illness and disability so they can live full lives in their local communities.  We support adults and children in their own homes or in a residential setting who have learning disabilities, autism, mental health issues, acquired brain injury or dementia. | £46,718,000
<strong>REAL LIFE OPTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [1156258](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1156258)]<br>Real Life Options provides support and care to people in the United Kingdom who have disabilities.  In particular, the organisation provides and manages services on a peripatetic and domiciliary basis, and provides care and support through the provision of residential housing, both directly and in conjunction with other voluntary agencies, charities and housing associations. | £44,627,000
<strong>Real Life Options </strong> [Charity number: [SC045939](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045939)]<br>The Association's objects (the 'Objects') are: 1. The relief of those who are in need by reason of disability by such means as the Directors see fit, including but not limited to, providing: 1.accommodation; or 2. care and support services (whether peripatetic, domiciliary or otherwise | £44,627,000
<strong>Quarriers</strong> [Charity number: [SC001960](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC001960)]<br>2.1 To promote the relief and advancement of life opportunities for those faced with and affected by disadvantage through disability, addiction, chronic and/or terminal illness, mental infirmity, financial hardship and/or poverty and homelessness through person centred care and support in such ways as the company shall from time to time think fit without regard to race, nationality, creed, age, gender, or sexual orientation and without geographical restriction and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):  (a) By establishing, maintaining and conducting residential care and other support services for the reception and care of persons who are suffering from any chronic and/or terminal illness or from any other physical or mental infirmity, disability or disease and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons.  (b) Providing practical care and support of persons suffering from the effects of disability, chronic and/or terminal illness, poverty or suffering (such persons being hereinafter referred to as “the People We Support”) which care and support may include, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of counselling and emotional, therapeutic, financial, educational and domiciliary support, the provision of information, advice and training, the provision of nursing and medical services, the provision and facilitation of accommodation, the provision and facilitation of vocational training and employment services and/or other training to the People We Support.  (c) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research and evaluation into the care, welfare and support of the People We Support and the dissemination of knowledge.   Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £42,634,000
<strong>BRUNELCARE</strong> [Charity number: [201555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-201555)]<br>Brunelcare is a registered charity and social landlord providing choice and care for older people in Somerset, North Somerset, Gloucestershire, South Gloucestershire and Bristol. Brunelcare provides sheltered and extra care housing, care homes and domiciliary care and support. | £36,965,000
<strong>Ambient Support Limited</strong> [Charity number: [1135353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135353)]<br>Provision of 24 hour care and support, which includes domiciliary care, residential care, nursing care, respite/short breaks, supported living, extra care, outreach and day care services. | £36,938,000
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £31,888,255


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Seaforth House Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC021642](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021642)]<br>The Company is established for charitable objects and purposes only. In particular its objects are: (a) The provision of respite care and to provide accommodation, domiciliary and day-care services within the community for 'persons in need' as interpreted by Section 94 of the Social Work (Scotland) Act 1968, including provision for persons who: (i) are in need of care and attention arising out of infirmity, youth or age, or (ii) suffer from illness or mental disorder or are substantially handicapped by any deformity or disability. (iii) are referred in connection with court of tribunal appearances, or orders made thereat. (b) To provide, improve, repair, maintain and manage housing (whether solely or in conjunction with any other person or body). (c) To engage and employ professional advisers, persons, firms, agents, Government agencies and organisations whose services are necessary or desirable for the promotion and carrying out of the objects of the Company and to pay reasonable and proper remuneration for such services. (d) To act as trustees or agents for or to manage money grants or other assistance received from statutory bodies, trusts or other bodies, and to affiliate with any other association, society or body established for charitable purposes only and, having the primary object wholly or partly similar to those of the Company and for the purpose of promoting the primary object of the Company to co-operate with the press and other sources of publicity. (e) To purchase, take on lease or in exchange, hire or otherwise acquire and to hold, sell, feu, 1ease or otherwise dispose of any heritable or moveable property and any rights or privileges which may be necessary or convenient for the promotion of the objects of the Company and to construct, maintain and alter any buildings or erections necessary or convenient for the work of the Company. | £681,502
<strong>Garden House Hospice Care</strong> [Charity number: [295257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295257)]<br>To provide a wide range of services for patients, their carers and families facing life limiting illness through: the Hospice Inpatient Unit; Hawthorne Centre providing day services; Hospice at Home and Continuing Health Care team caring for patients in their own homes; Family Support Services providing support and counselling; 24/7 advice line for patients, families and healthcare professionals. | £7,692,829
<strong>ESK MOORS CARING LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1113392](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113392)]<br>Esk Moors Caring aim to relieve the needs of older, sick and disabled residents in our rural area so that they can continue to live in their own homes without the need for moving away into residential care. We provide personal care, home help services, transport, activities, advice and information to people in their own homes to enable independant living. | £410,399
<strong>CARERS' SUPPORT CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1070028](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1070028)]<br>Provides a range of support services for Carers. These include ;- Information;advocacy;befriending;home visits;life long learning;carer group support;counselling and a listening ear;home care and a sitter service. | £989,291
<strong>KATHARINE HOUSE HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1011712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1011712)]<br>A provider of hospice services through inpatient, day care and home care.A provider of lymphoedema services.A provider of support to families, those who are bereaved, carers and ex-carers.A provider of home care through a care agency | £8,338,468
<strong>AGE UK HEREFORD AND LOCALITIES</strong> [Charity number: [1093512](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1093512)]<br>Operating in Herefordshire . We deliver services that enable older people to remain independent and in their own homes. For example: Day Opportunities, Rural Men's Club, Coffee Mornings and Lunch Clubs, Information, Advice and Advocacy, Footcare Service,  Reaching You Home Visiting Service, Reaching You Help at Home Service. | £205,748
<strong>Bryson Charitable Group</strong> [Charity number: [NI101396](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101396)]<br>Our services are delivered through five subsidiary charitable companies and two social enterprise trading companies. Our work to address fuel poverty, Bryson Energy, remains within the parent company and will transfer to a charitable subsidiary as from April 2015. Our charitable services companies are: • Bryson Care – services to families and older people in Belfast and the North West; • Bryson Intercultural – support for black and ethnic minority people and the Traveller community; • Bryson Lagansports – promoting active living, health and well-being in inner city communities; Our social enterprise trading companies are: • Bryson Future Skills – providing employment and training initiatives to young adults and those living with long term employment; • Bryson Recycling – providing kerbside recycling services. In the last financial year we have had a positive impact in a wide range of areas: ? We delivered over 212,000 hours of care and support to older people, helping them to remain in their own homes. ? We supported over 1,200 vulnerable children and their families. ? We provided over 1,500 hours of advice and support to newly arrived people from across the world seeking asylum. ? We supported 180 people from the Traveller community through our health, education, training and youth programmes. ? We supported 7,600 people in developing their skills and finding a new job. ? We recycled over 60,000 tonnes of household materials, selling 35% to local companies to create new products and support local jobs. ? We insulated 4,428 homes, reducing fuel bills and increasing comfort. ? We supported health and well-being by providing active living opportunities to 6,552 people from across the city. | £31,888,255
<strong>Harmoni 2019</strong> [Charity number: [NI101731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101731)]<br>Hostel facilities for the homeless Supported housing facilities for the beneficiaries Provide respite care and domiciliary care for the beneficiaries and support for carers of the beneficiaries | £3,122,450
<strong>Strathcarron Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC006704](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006704)]<br>1. To promote the relief of suffering (so far as such purpose is charitable) in such ways as the Company shall from time to time think fit, and in particular (but without prejudice to the generality of such objects):- (A) By establishing, maintaining and conducting Residential Nursing Homes and Hospices (hereinafter referred to as a Hospice the singular being understood to include the plural) in Scotland for the reception and care of persons of either sex (without regard to race or creed) who are suffering (at any age) from any chronic or terminal illness or from any disability or disease associated with or attributable to old age or from any other physical or mental infirmity and by providing medical or other treatment and attention for any such persons in their own homes. (B) By conducting or promoting or encouraging research into the care and treatment of persons suffering from any such illness, disability or infirmity and particularly into the care and treatment of persons suffering from cancer or terminal illnesses. (C) By promoting or encouraging or assisting in the teaching or training of any persons engaged in any medical or paramedical field and particularly in the training of doctors, nurses, physiotherapists and other persons engaged in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services, and in the teaching or training of students in any branch of medicine, surgery, nursing or allied services. (D) By assisting or encouraging the provision of spiritual help and guidance in accordance with the teaching and example of Christ for any persons resident (either as patients or otherwise) or working in the Hospice. (E) By providing a counselling service and practical care and support for the relatives and friends of patients in or connected with the  Hospice. | £9,823,634
<strong>CARTREF NI LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1071424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071424)]<br>PROVIDE DOMICILIARY SUPPORT TO VULNERABLE ADULTS IN THEIR OWN HOME | £4,021,533
