# Residential care with nursing `SC107`

Residential care with nursing is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](/data/ukcat/SC) category.

58 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.03% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(residential care with nursing|nursing home|twenty four hour care)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 17 | 0.02%
£10k - £100k | 14 | 0.02%
£100k - £250k | 1 | 0.01%
£250k - £500k | 2 | 0.02%
£500k - £1m | 2 | 0.04%
£1m - £10m | 20 | 0.26%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 56 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 45 | 0.03%
oscr | 10 | 0.04%
ccni | 3 | 0.05%
Total | 58 | 0.03%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE CHASELEY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1090579](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090579)]<br>The provision of a nursing home and services for adults with significant physical disabilities. | £5,265,841
<strong>THE GLOUCESTER CHARITIES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [205177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205177)]<br>The Charity provides sheltered flats for older people in Gloucestershire as well as a Residential  Home and Nursing Home. The Charity also offers day care services for those living with dementia in the wider community as well as a weekly social club.The Trust also administers a "Relief in Need" grant making branch of the charity and the former Gloucester District Nursing Charity. | £4,721,924
<strong>ST. MARY'S CONVENT AND NURSING HOME (CHISWICK)</strong> [Charity number: [1080751](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080751)]<br>The object of the charity is the advancement of the Anglican Christian religion in particular: by providing residential home accommodation, nursing and other care facilities to members of the public, to members of the convent and to members of the charity; by the promotion and maintenance of public worship; and by the promotion of religious and spiritual teaching. | £4,042,624
<strong>ST VINCENT'S CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1014889](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014889)]<br>The charity runs St. Vincent's Nursing Home in Eastcote, Pinner, Middlesex, a Care Home built to a very high standard that can cater for up to 60 residents all with en-suite facilities. The Home especially caters for residents with a religious background, having an integrated chapel on site where Mass is celebrated frequently, but freely admits residents of all faiths. | £3,869,927
<strong>HOYLAKE COTTAGE</strong> [Charity number: [515591](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515591)]<br>A registered nursing home providing long-term nursing care, including for those suffering from dementia and short-term respite care for older persons, with a Day Centre providing services to older persons suffering from dementia. | £3,727,243
<strong>THE MINCHINHAMPTON CENTRE FOR THE ELDERLY</strong> [Charity number: [287479](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287479)]<br>The relief of the aged and disabled who are resident in and around Minchinhampton by the provsion of facilities for rehabilitation, recreation and leisure time occupation. This includes charity fund raising and the operation of a nursing home know as Horsfall House. | £3,539,713
<strong>MINCHINHAMPTON CENTRE FOR THE ELDERLY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1083810](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083810)]<br>Operator of nursing home | £3,399,650
<strong>DONISTHORPE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [1077573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077573)]<br>To provide a residential nursing home for needy, infirm and elderly people who wish to live (either permanently or temporarily) or receive respite care in an orthodox Jewish environment. | £3,266,942
<strong>VISION HOMES ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1017893](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017893)]<br>Provision of twenty four hour care and support to adults with profound multiple disabilities [including learning disability, physical disability, sensory loss, acquired brain injury] in a variety of residential and domiciliary settings. | £2,376,745
<strong>THE COTE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [257237](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257237)]<br>TO PROVIDE A RESIDENTIAL HOME(S) OR COMBINATION(S) OF A RESIDENTIAL HOME AND A NURSING HOME FOR ELDERLY PEOPLE OVER 60 YEARS OF AGE WHO THROUGH INFIRMITY OR FINANCIAL NEEDS ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE A HOME THEMSELVES.TO PAY PENSIONS,ANNUITIES OR GRANTS TO ELDERLY PERSONS OVER 60 YEARS OF AGE (WHETHER OR NOT RESIDENTS OF THE HOMES) WHO THROUGH INFIRMITY OR FINANCIAL NEED | £2,119,029


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WANTAGE CARE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1101042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1101042)]<br>The principal activity of the charity for the year was to raise funds for the Nursing Home, and meet the Management of Santuary Homes (the Lessors) to discuss the Nursing Home | £2,182
<strong>Ballynahinch Congregational Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI100648](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100648)]<br>The means we use in order to achieve our purpose of advancing the Christian religion and faith and the benefits which flow from it are many and varied. • Public worship. This takes place each Sunday morning and evening providing an opportunity to praise God, read His word and hear it explained. • Teaching and prayer. A Mid-week Fellowship is held each Wednesday evening which gives an opportunity to benefit from in-depth teaching of God’s word and to pray for the needs of others in the church, the community and on the mission field. • Pastoral care. Visitation is carried out to people in hospital, residential and nursing home care or confined to their own home through illness or old age. Support, through counselling or spiritual and moral guidance, is given to individuals or families in need due to family crisis or bereavement. • Youth work. Youth work is carried out through a morning Sunday School, Bible Class and an evening Young Peoples Fellowship. During the week this is continued through two uniformed organizations with a Christian ethos, Girl’s Brigade and Boy’s Brigade and a Friday Youth Club. A Parent and Toddlers group takes place each Wednesday and caters for parents and carers, including ethnic groups living in the Ballynahinch area. • General. A senior citizen Thursday Fellowship, which gives an opportunity for friendship to those perhaps living on their own, and a Ladies Fellowship also meet. Each summer a Holiday Bible Club is held for children. • Website. Details of all church activities, news and events are available on the church website – ballynahinchcongregational.com. In addition to the above we respond to appeals for financial help to international disaster relief such as earthquakes or tsunamis. We recently supplied a generator to Mr Henna Singson of Lydia Book Ministries in Manipur, north eastern India. | £90,127
<strong>LEAGUE OF FRIENDS OF ST JAMES'S LODGE NURSING HOME</strong> [Charity number: [1029260](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1029260)]<br>Fete's, Trips, Raffles, entertainment | £500
<strong>Bethesda Care Home and Hospice</strong> [Charity number: [SC015783](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015783)]<br>The purposes of the SCIO are:- (i) to promote the advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, or other disadvantage, through (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) the Care Home and Hospice known as the Bethesda Care Home and Hospice which shall be used to provide: (a)  a convalescent home for patients on leaving hospital;  (b)  a private nursing home for patients who do not require to be admitted to the hospital;  (c)  a hospice for the provision of specialist palliative care; and (d)  a residence for the aged and infirm,  all in accordance with the Admission and Referral Policy, to be approved and revised from time to time as may be necessary by the Trustees; and (ii) to promote similar charitable purposes, objects or institutions in such proportions and manner as the Trustees think fit.    | £2,042,384
<strong>CROFT CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [703194](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-703194)]<br>Croft Care Trust provides care for adults over the age of 18 years with physical and learning difficulties within our Nursing Home and Residential Village | £2,012,246
<strong>FRIENDS OF HIGH HURLANDS CHILDREN</strong> [Charity number: [900257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-900257)]<br>The charity supports the residents of High Hurlands Nursing Home by the provision of holidays and equipment for the benefit of the residents. | £472
<strong>James Paterson Trust & Nursing Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC017645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017645)]<br>Trustees, to apply 400,000 parts of the proceeds ,of the residue of his estate for the purchase, erection furnishing and maintenance of a nursing home in the district of Bridgeton, Glasgow, with accommodation for two nurses and eight beds with admission to said home to be confined to women and girls dwelling in Bridgeton, aforesaid, who had worked in cotton mills or cotton factories in Bridgeton with power to apply the income for the further board and maintenance of such persons at any convalescent home in Scotland under public management and also with power to the Trustees to entrust the carrying out of said objects or any of them to any society, organisation of institution  which they might consider suitable for carrying out said objects. | £22,376
<strong>THE COTE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [257237](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257237)]<br>TO PROVIDE A RESIDENTIAL HOME(S) OR COMBINATION(S) OF A RESIDENTIAL HOME AND A NURSING HOME FOR ELDERLY PEOPLE OVER 60 YEARS OF AGE WHO THROUGH INFIRMITY OR FINANCIAL NEEDS ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE A HOME THEMSELVES.TO PAY PENSIONS,ANNUITIES OR GRANTS TO ELDERLY PERSONS OVER 60 YEARS OF AGE (WHETHER OR NOT RESIDENTS OF THE HOMES) WHO THROUGH INFIRMITY OR FINANCIAL NEED | £2,119,029
<strong>Sir Gabriel Wood's Mariners' Home</strong> [Charity number: [SC003763](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003763)]<br>The Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund and income thereof to provide residential and nursing home care including care for those with special needs including alzheimers and dementia related illnesses, post-traumatic stress disorder and other mental health conditions as well as short term respite care to the following: 3.1. Former seafarers, including those who have worked in the maritime industry or ports as well as at sea in the Merchant Navy,  Royal Navy, Royal Marines or the WRNS, the widows or widowers of such retired persons, including married couples, civil partnerships and their immediate families where at least one person was a former seafarer;  3.2. Anyone with a work connection to the sea which shall include for the avoidance of doubt former ferry or dock workers, onshore staff etc and the widows or widowers of such retired persons, including married couples, civil partnerships and their immediate families where at least one person had a work connection to the sea in some way; 3.3. Persons of all ages who have no work connection to the sea whatsoever but have another form of service background including the armed services; and 3.4. Those who are in need by reason of age, ill health (which will include any form of mental or physical illness), disability, financial hardship or some other disadvantage.  3.5.	DECLARING THAT in determining who should be received by the Trust under clauses 3.1 to 3.4, the Trustees shall also apply the following: 3.5.1. The Trustees shall have absolute discretion at all times to determine who they shall consider to be suitable for admission;  3.5.2. Preference shall be given where possible to British citizens and to those resident within the United Kingdom, Northern Ireland, the Isle of Man or the Channel Islands;  3.5.3. Where possible, preference shall be given to former seafarers and to those with a connection to Scotland, in particular those with a connection to the Counties of Renfrew, Ayr, Dumbarton, Argyll and Bute.  | £1,155,839
<strong>THE GLOUCESTER CHARITIES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [205177](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205177)]<br>The Charity provides sheltered flats for older people in Gloucestershire as well as a Residential  Home and Nursing Home. The Charity also offers day care services for those living with dementia in the wider community as well as a weekly social club.The Trust also administers a "Relief in Need" grant making branch of the charity and the former Gloucester District Nursing Charity. | £4,721,924
