# Respite `SC108`

Respite is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](SC.md) category.

741 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.36% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(respite)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 163 | 0.23%
£10k - £100k | 194 | 0.28%
£100k - £250k | 92 | 0.42%
£250k - £500k | 70 | 0.64%
£500k - £1m | 63 | 0.94%
£1m - £10m | 96 | 1.06%
Over £10m | 22 | 1.00%
Total | 700 | 0.36%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 569 | 0.33%
oscr | 96 | 0.39%
ccni | 76 | 1.06%
Total | 741 | 0.36%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £65,515,841
<strong>ST ANNE'S COMMUNITY SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [502224](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-502224)]<br>We provide support services throughout the North of England for people who are homeless, who have a learning disability, mental health problems or substance use problems. A wide range of services include Supported Living, Supported Housing, Registered Care and Nursing Homes,respite care, direct access and resettlement hostels and a range of community based support. | £56,780,705
<strong>THE FREMANTLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1014986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014986)]<br>Providing care and support for older people and people with learning disabilities.  Services for older people include care homes, care homes with nursing, specialist dementia care, extra care and day care.  Respite care services are also offered.  Services for people with learning disabilities include supported living schemes, registered care homes, respite care and day activities. | £49,539,579
<strong>AVANTE CARE AND SUPPORT LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1002727](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002727)]<br>Residential, Respite, Nursing & Day Care for older people, specialising in dementia care.Domiciliary care for older people. | £44,541,017
<strong>AMBIENT SUPPORT LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1135353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135353)]<br>Provision of 24 hour care and support, which includes domiciliary care, residential care, nursing care, respite/short breaks, supported living, extra care, outreach and day care services. | £37,277,000
<strong>AUTISM TOGETHER</strong> [Charity number: [1007878](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1007878)]<br>Established in 1968 the charity is now a leading provider of specialist residential, day services, respite and family support to people with autism, based in Wirral. | £33,048,000
<strong>NORWOOD SCHOOLS LTD</strong> [Charity number: [307992](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307992)]<br>Promotion of education and the relief in need of people with learning difficulties and children and families in need through the provision of support, particularly in the areas of special education, respite and recreational services, family support including social work, and adoption, the beneficiaries of which activities shall be drawn primarily, but not exclusively, from the Jewish community. | £29,780,000
<strong>Erskine Veterans Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC006609](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006609)]<br>(a) The provision of financial support to men and women with a current or former record of armed service or service in support of, or alongside the armed services together with dependents or surviving dependents of such personnel who find themselves in necessitous circumstances on terms which are most appropriate to their individual needs. (b) The provision of long term nursing care and short term and respite nursing care within the United Kingdom. (c) The provision of health care including residential long term care, residential short term and respite care, day care, domiciliary care and all appropriate relevant recreational and therapeutic programmes within the United Kingdom. (d) The creation of centres of excellence for nursing and residential care together with the creation of training opportunities for personnel involved in nursing and health care and medical and allied professions. (e) The provision of employment opportunities for individuals with physical or other disabilities, the provision of rehabilitation assessment and training for individuals with physical disabilities and other disadvantages which could be impediments to independent living. (f) The provision, construction, improvement, or management for persons who are aged or infirm or disabled or handicapped (whether mentally or physically) and in need thereof of housing and any associated amenities specially designed or adapted to meet the disabilities and requirements of such persons. | £27,364,000
<strong>NIGHTINGALE HAMMERSON</strong> [Charity number: [207316](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207316)]<br>Provision of residential, nursing, dementia and respite care | £27,251,000
<strong>GUILD CARE</strong> [Charity number: [1044658](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1044658)]<br>Our aim is to deliver innovative and life-changing care services for older people and those living with dementia and to support children and young people affected by life limiting illnesses and disabilities .  We also support their unpaid carers with respite services to enable them to enjoy a richer family and community life. We have a culture of continuous improvement for our customers. | £26,686,379


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>LS29 SPECIAL NEEDS SUPPORT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1152732](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152732)]<br>To relieve the needs of children with special needs & their families, in the LS29 area and the surrounds by:1. the provision of recreational and leisure time activities, respite care, help, information and support;2. increasing public awareness of the problems and circumstances of people with special needs;3. encouraging inclusion of children with special needs in the wider community. | £51,252
<strong>Jura Care Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC024743](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024743)]<br>To promote the benefit of, relieve the needs of, and further the health both physical and mental of elderly people on the island of Jura without distinction of politicial, religious or other opinions by the provision of a residential respite care home. | £3,198
<strong>Dementia Friendly Communities Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC047864](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047864)]<br>The companys purpose is the relief of those in need by reason of age and ill-health, with a particular focus on those with dementia, through: raising awareness and challenging the stigma and misconceptions about dementia as well as identifying and addressing the needs of those with dementia in the community and their carers. working in partnership within the community to increase the opportunities for people with dementia and their carers in order that they may remain engaged in their desired lifestyle for as long as possible. delivering programmes of activities in the community for the benefit of older people and those with dementia. providing carer respite, support and practical assistance in the home. exploring new ideas and the use of technology to improve the lives of those affected by old age and dementia. and carrying out similar projects, initiatives or activities to advance the company's charitable purpose.  | £242,093
<strong>LET US PLAY (WOLVERHAMPTON)</strong> [Charity number: [1104506](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104506)]<br>To provide respite for families with disabled children by providing high quality sports arts and play activities.  We help disabled children and young people  access play, arts and leisure activities.  Disabled volunteer project.  Parent / carer support group. | £270,053
<strong>The Clinton Pringle Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC047674](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047674)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to provide recreational facilities for children and young people, with the object of improving the conditions of life for them and advancing education in the process. We will do this by:  4.1 identifying parents or families who have suffered the death of a healthy child (or children) suddenly and in tragic circumstances, such as accidents for example.  4.2 consult with and work with identified families/relatives to create physical memorials which will primarily serve a practical or educational use to members of the community to which their child(ren) were part of. Examples of which could be. a community learning garden, or a playground structure.  4.3 enhance inclusiveness in local communities by the providing such bespoke structures/facilities.  4.4 to fund the production and installation of these practical memorial structures, and project-manage as necessary.  Further to this we will also provide relief to those in need by reason of financial hardship or disadvantage through bereavement by providing services to affected families. We will achieve this in the following ways:  4.5 providing emotional support, advice and guidance to parents and families affected by the sudden death of their child(ren).  4.6 we propose to offer a drop-in service (subject to suitable premises being obtained in the future)  where we can offer support and advice, as well as signposting towards relevant help for grieving parents/families. Refreshments will be provided free of charge to those using the drop-in service.  4.7 by providing short holiday breaks to affected parents/families suddenly bereaved of their children (subject to qualifying criteria). | £90
<strong>The wildflower dwelling</strong> [Charity number: [1163871](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1163871)]<br>Promoting the Christian Faith, Christian events centre and Christian respite holiday accommodation in the North West of England. | £399
<strong>Friends of Seaview</strong> [Charity number: [SC048301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048301)]<br>7.1 The SCIO will promote, advance and further its charitable purposes by supporting (financially and otherwise) the Seaview Centre, currently 1 Bingham Ave, Edinburgh EH15 3HZ, which provides planned short breaks to children and young people who have a learning and/or physical disability and also offers parents and carers regular respite time. The SCIO will do this by supporting the provision of additional services, facilities and equipment to help the Seaview Centre provide sustainable care services to children and young people in and around Edinburgh. 7.2 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 7.2.1 The advancement of health. 7.2.2 The advancement of citizenship or community development. 7.2.3 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of the lives of the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 7.2.4 The promotion of equality and diversity. and 7.2.5 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 7.3 For the purposes of the Taxes Acts the provisions set out in clauses 7.1 and 7.2 shall be read together to ensure the charitable purposes of the SCIO are compliant with the Taxes Acts. | £15,000
<strong>Carrickfergus Church of the Nazarene</strong> [Charity number: [NI106437](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106437)]<br>Organises weekly services and other gatherings for members and non-members, to present the teachings of the Bible and to provide opportunities for Christian response, including but not limited to prayer and worship. The meetings are free of charge and open to all. Meetings are held every week on Sunday morning and sometimes Sunday evening. There are also midweek meetings providing gatherings to carry out the stated activities of the Church. Additionally the Church organises gatherings for specific disadvantaged groups. The Church employs a pastor to promote and coordinate the work along with a committee of volunteers made up from Church members. The Church provides teaching and training opportunities for members, using the resources of the staff employed by the Church and also external courses and events. The Church assists the work of individual Christians and Christian organisations, insofar as that work, whether in this country or abroad, accords with the Church's aims. The Church makes donations as agreed periodically by the members of the Church, The purpose of the donations includes the promotion of religious activity, relief of poverty, training and equipping, work with youth and the elderly, homeless and other local and national charities. Our members currently support a weekly gathering for those suffering dementia and their carers to provide social interaction and respite, they provide a mother and toddler group to provide a balanced education and development environment for those pre-school age, they provide facilities for various disadvantaged groups, and they provide facilities for youth. | £170,081
<strong>FOREST OF DEAN CROSSROADS CARING FOR CARERS</strong> [Charity number: [1086841](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086841)]<br>Forest of Dean Crossroads provides respite breaks for Carers in the form of daycare services, social groups  and community respite. We also work in partnership with Adult and Social Care Directorate by providing care workers to work in a day centre setting as well as in the community. We also support Carers and cared for who hold Direct Payments and those who  pay for their support privately. | £1,916,938
<strong>The Principle Trust Childrens Charity Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [1141546](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141546)]<br>The aims  and objectives of the Trust  are to improve the quality of life for  children and their families whom are Underprivileged, Disadvantaged or Disabled. Whether  this is caused by   social, physical, mental, emotional circumstances , or as a result of extreme poverty.  The Trust  provides through their five holiday homes,  Free Holidays or Respite breaks for the children and families. | £220,739
