# Children in care `SC103`

Children in care is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](SC.md) category.

178 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.09% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((children|young people) in (care|fostering)|foster (children|care)|looked after children|care leavers|(leaving|left)( foster)? care)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 48 | 0.07%
£10k - £100k | 52 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 14 | 0.06%
£250k - £500k | 13 | 0.12%
£500k - £1m | 10 | 0.14%
£1m - £10m | 23 | 0.25%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.31%
Total | 167 | 0.09%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 151 | 0.09%
oscr | 16 | 0.06%
ccni | 11 | 0.16%
Total | 178 | 0.09%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo's helps children and young people to be safer, happier, healthier and more hopeful. We provide specialist support for children and young people, including those in and leaving care, facing mental health challenges, seeking sanctuary, at risk of exploitation and needing support accessing education, training and employment. We campaign for improved policy and attitudes towards childhood. | £340,251,582
<strong>THE ADOLESCENT AND CHILDREN'S TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1018963](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1018963)]<br>TACT IS A DIVERSIFIED CHILDREN'S CHARITY PREDOMINANTLY PROVIDING FOSTERING, ADOPTION AND PERMANENCY FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE IN PUBLIC CARE OR ON THE CUSP OF CARE. THE CHARITY ALSO CAMPAIGNS AND ADVOCATES ON BEHALF OF LOOKED AFTER CHILDREN. | £27,757,000
<strong>The Adolescent And Children's Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039052](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039052)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are:  (1) to relieve children and young people who by reason of their circumstances have need of foster, adoptive or substitute care by placing children in foster homes or adoptive placements and by training foster or adoptive parents to deal with the needs of children in their care.  (2) otherwise to promote the care and upbringing and establishment in life  of children in need thereof including by promotion of their health, development and educational attainment and particularly children in foster or adoptive care and by the provision of support and assistance to their carers.  (3) to promote education and research for the public benefit in the subject of children in care and adults with care experience, public policy on  care and the needs of children entering and leaving the care system | £27,744,000
<strong>BREAK</strong> [Charity number: [286650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286650)]<br>Break supports children, young people and families in four key areas - young people in care and moving on, children and young people with disabilities, families in need of support and children at risk. | £16,620,000
<strong>Bryson Care</strong> [Charity number: [NI100809](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100809)]<br>CHILDREN and FAMILIES We support around 1000 children and 400 families annually, strengthening families and avoiding the need to place children in care. YOUNG PEOPLE We have been asked by the Northern Ireland Executive, as part of their Pathways to Success Strategy, to build relationships between organisations working with young people not in education or training, identify best practice and ensure that young people’s views are central to the development of future programmes. ADULT CARE Around 2000 vulnerable adults benefit from our services each year. These services are designed to address issues such as loneliness, coping with dementia and loss of independence. SOCIAL WORK STUDENT EDUCATION Our current model provides supervised work experience placements for up to 10 students each year. Our Practice Learning Centre was recently nominated in the top 4 Regional Social Work Innovation Awards across the UK. | £16,609,257
<strong>ST CHRISTOPHER'S FELLOWSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [207782](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-207782)]<br>ST CHRISTOPHER'S PROVIDES SAFE, CARING AND INNOVATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES FOR A WIDE VARIETY OF VULNERABLE PEOPLE INCLUDING YOUNG RUNAWAYS, CHILDREN IN RESIDENTIAL CARE AND FOSTER CARE, CARE LEAVERS AND YOUNG HOMELESS PEOPLE.  THROUGH OUR WORK WE AIM TO HELP THEM OVERCOME THEIR DISADVANTAGES AND ACHIEVE BRIGHTER FUTURES. | £16,255,000
<strong>THE NATIONAL YOUTH ADVOCACY SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1012485](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1012485)]<br>NYAS is a socio-legal charity providing advice, advocacy, information and legal advice to children, young people and vulnerable adults.  NYAS also provides Independent Visitors who befriend children in care, and we undertake Regulation 44 visits of children homes. Under Rule 16.4 of the Family Proceedings Act we represent children and young people in private law family proceedings. | £11,839,321
<strong>The Fostering Network</strong> [Charity number: [SC039338](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039338)]<br>The objects for which the Fostering Network is estblished are:- A.  To relieve by such means as are chariatble children in the aged and persons suffering from mental or physical disability who by reason of their circumstances have need of foster or substitute care B.  To promote and organise co-operation in achieving the improvement of the quality of service given to children and others in care and to that end bring together in the Fostering Network foster carers representatives of the authorities and organisations engaged in advancing foster care and relieving distress of children and others in care and to assist their work. | £9,359,081
<strong>THE FOSTERING NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [280852](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280852)]<br>These are membership services, policy and practice,  publishing and training, advice & mediation work, information services and consultancy and projects. | £9,359,081
<strong>Belfast Central Mission</strong> [Charity number: [NI101271](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101271)]<br>BCM, an agency of the Methodist Church, was established in 1889 as a Christian response to social problems inherent in inner city Belfast. Located in the very heart of the city, its motivation was then, as now, to meet the needs of the whole person, spiritual, emotional, social and physical, regardless of class, creed or ethnicity. Today BCM seeks to support those most in need across Northern Ireland through a diverse range of social care projects and a community outreach programme which is enhanced by a dedicated team of volunteers. Activities include: • Residential care and Housing Support for older people • Community based advice and support, including Befriending, Lunch Club and short breaks for older people • Supported Housing accommodation for young people • Housing Support projects for young people • Parent Support projects • Therapeutic Counselling for young care leavers • Puddleducks Day Nursery • Christmas Support Programme - food and toys for people and families in need The congregation of the charity seeks to live through word and deed the Gospel of Jesus Christ, being a practical expression of the Christian faith through its support for the charity’s fundraising, befriending older people and encouraging the charity’s staff in all they do. Activities include: • Sunday services of worship open to the public • A mid-week early morning Holy Communion service • A ‘Prayer Diary’ which members of the public are encouraged to write in and members of the congregation pray for • Supporting, both financially and as volunteers, Belfast Street Pastors, a ministry of caring, listening and provision of help to the night-time economy • Supporting the establishment of a city centre chaplaincy • Supporting a Cognitive Behavioural Therapy and Spirituality project in North Belfast • Providing pastoral care to members of the congregation and the general public particularly during times of need | £8,467,950


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CARING KITS FOR KIDS</strong> [Charity number: [1193173](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1193173)]<br>To provide foster packs for children from 0-16 years old entering emergency foster care, including everything needed for up to 24-hour transitional period in the hospital before Social Services can take over.Additionally to provide a 24hr emergency pack for expectant mothers arriving at hospital with no belongings to give birth. | £3,770
<strong>Carolina House Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC016289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016289)]<br>26.1 The purpose of the Trust will be to provide quality services for children and young people whose circumstances make it in their best interest to receive care, protection, and support from the Trust, and to maintain the family life and education provision for such children and young people. These services are provided on a charitable basis through:  26.1.1 Foster Care services  26.1.2 Residential Care Homes  26.1.3 Housing Support or community based services  26.1.4 Continuing care and support for those over the age of 18 if circumstances  require up to the age of 26 years  26.1.5 Any other measures deemed appropriate by the Board, in line with the  objects of the Trust and current Child Care legislation, more specifically the  Children (Scotland) Act 1995, Children and Adoption (Scotland) Act 2007,  Looked After Children (Scotland) Regulations 2009, Children’s Hearings (Scotland) Act 2011, Children and Young People (Scotland) Act 2014.  | £1,178,035
<strong>KIRKLEES FOSTERING NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1069217](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069217)]<br>The KFN  provides 24/7  advice and support to local Foster Carers and their families to help improve the lives of children in the care system within Kirklees. We also provide numerous activities for birth children and foster children to assist with their social esteem and well being. | £24,064
<strong>Rees Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC054101](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054101)]<br>For the public benefit, to relieve by such means as are charitable, children and adults who have had foster care or residential care experience by the provision of support, advice, resources, assistance (financial or otherwise), grants, programmes and other activities to a) advance education, b) relieve unemployment, c) promote the social inclusion among these beneficiaries who are excluded from society, or parts of society, due to their social or economic position, d) develop their capacity and skills in such a way that they are better able to identify, and help meet, their needs and to participate more fully in society | 
<strong>Association for Fostering, Kinship and Adoption Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC046417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046417)]<br>The organisation's purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of education- including the provision of evidence informed training and advice supporting the workforce to improve delivery of services to looked after children, young people and their families across Scotland and connected through fostering, kinship care and adoption and undertaking academic research that informs our activities and is publicly available.  4.2 The advancement of health-promoting optimal health and wellbeing outcomes for children and their families connected through fostering, kinship care and adoption by training, support and advice activities with health and other professionals which will include encouraging listening to what matters for children and their families, encouraging communicating with them to support their physical, mental and emotional wellbeing and mitigating the impact of poverty on development throughout lifespan.  4.3 The promotion of equality and diversity - by valuing and respecting the diverse needs of looked after children, young people and their families. promoting inclusiveness through advice, training and research. in particular promoting the needs of persons with protected characteristics of age, disability, sex, sexual orientation, religion and belief. and promoting the recruitment and retention of foster carers, kinship carers and adopters from a diverse range of backgrounds.  4.4 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage - AFKA Scotland is engaged in the relief of disadvantaged and care-experienced children in need by promoting family membership with foster carers, kinship carers or adoptive families.  4.5 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation - by promotion of the UNCRC in all AFKA activities raising awareness of rights in relation to children and young people with care experience through advice, training, research and direct services.  | £848,998
<strong>ViZion Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC052708](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052708)]<br>The purposes for which the Church exists are :-the advancement of the Christian religion in Scotland and the world for the public benefit through the maintenance in one or more locations in Scotland of a body of Christian believers founded on the tradition of biblical orthodoxy which maintains that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments are the supreme authority and rule in matters of faith and life, and who are engaged in serving God through worship, discipling, pastoral care and outreach.  the relief of sickness and financial hardship and the promotion and preservation of good health for the public benefit, by the provision of funds, goods or services of any kind. the encouragement of members /adherents to take up the challenge and calling of Foster Care, both short and long term. This ministers to the most disadvantaged, young members of our society, and attempts to bring help & healing to an ever growing and desperately sad issue in our country the promotion of education for the public benefit, particularly in the understanding of the Christian religion, by encouragement of all Christian parents, who, through Home Education, or Christian schools take very seriously their legal responsibility to educate their children. We already deliver a twice weeklyHome-School Co-op for secondary school age children, and it is our ambition to extend this to primary school age pupils, and also to be involved in the planting of a Christian school in the future.the individual, corporate and family worship and praise of God and the deepening of spiritual life. the instruction of adults and children in the Christian faith. reaching out to the community in evangelism. the promotion of service within the Church and community. the development of Christian character and leadership. the promotion and support, financially or otherwise, of missionary and evangelistic outreach both at home and abroad. and such other charitable purposes as are consistent with and further the attainment of the above objects. | £25,087
<strong>FRIENDS OF KAPSA (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1169281](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169281)]<br>To relieve the suffering of stray animals in Turkey. Our main day to day activities include neutering, veterinary treatment, foster care and permanent rehoming both in Turkey and abroad. To promote humane behaviour towards animals and to educate the public in matters pertaining to animal welfare in general and the prevention of cruelty and suffering among animals, | £66,069
<strong>KIDS CARE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1164243](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164243)]<br>Mainly involved in fund-raising activities. Funds raised are used to increase the capacity of partner organizations to find suitable foster care placements for children living in instituional homes in Bulgaria and adoptive families for such children  Grants are also extended towards prevention or relief of poverty among families who are at risk of having their children taken away | £33,287
<strong>The Care Leavers Association</strong> [Charity number: [1111988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111988)]<br>The Care Leavers' Association is run by and for adults who spent time in care as children. It works to improve provision for adult care leavers and young people currently in care. The CLA provides advice, information and training. The CLA also aims to challenge negative public perceptions and stereotypes of children in care and care leavers and to raise awareness about the needs of this group. | £125,374
<strong>FORUM CREATIVE ENTERPRISE</strong> [Charity number: [1197652](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197652)]<br>Deliver services, support, activities, and opportunities to people who are at risk of or about to be homeless and those living in short term or temporary accommodation, including care leavers and young people aged 16 to 25 years. Support beneficiaries to learn additional skills, gain confidence, explore talents and interests, and achieve personal growth to live a positive life in the community. | £642
