# Carer support `SC102`

Carer support is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](SC.md) category.

337 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((assist(ing|ance)|support(ing)?|help(ing)?) (to|for )?carers?|carers? (assistance|support|help)|for carers?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 64 | 0.09%
£10k - £100k | 68 | 0.10%
£100k - £250k | 39 | 0.18%
£250k - £500k | 42 | 0.39%
£500k - £1m | 38 | 0.56%
£1m - £10m | 59 | 0.65%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.32%
Total | 317 | 0.16%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 284 | 0.17%
oscr | 40 | 0.16%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 337 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £345,552,000
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £326,134,178
<strong>LOCAL SOLUTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [515060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515060)]<br>The provision of services in the following fields:      Homecare,      Shopmobility,      Training ,      Welfare Rights,      Supported Accommodation,      Support for the disabled,      Carers Support,      Liverpool Watersports Centre,      Mobex,      Domestic Violence Service,      Conference Facilities | £14,598,037
<strong>Carers Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042870)]<br>a) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage through the provision of comprehensive support services for carers throughout the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands and the Isle of Man. b) the assistance of carers in need including by raising awareness of issues affecting carers. c) the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of charities which operate for the care and support of carers. | £12,966,770
<strong>EAST MIDLANDS CROSSROADS-CARING FOR CARERS</strong> [Charity number: [1051649](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1051649)]<br>Carers Trust East Midlands provides short breaks for carers across England.  Our charitable objective is to relieve the stresses experienced by carers and their beneficiaries.  We achieve this by delivering the highest quality of care to people in their own homes, which allows the carer to take a short break from their caring responsibilities. | £12,165,740
<strong>Hansel Alliance</strong> [Charity number: [SC027681](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC027681)]<br>4.1 the advancement of health, social care and integration for children, young people and adults who are in need by reason of any disability or disadvantage arising from any physical or mental state, age, accident or as a result of any disease or infection or with learning disabilities, mental health or any other special needs or circumstances, 4.2 the advancement of education and equality for children, young people and adults who are in need by reason of any disability or disadvantage arising from any physical or mental state, age, accident or as a result of any disease or infection or with learning disabilities, mental health or any other special needs or circumstances, 4.3 the relief of stress and financial needs experienced by their families and carers through, but not limited to, the provision of accommodation, support, education and training, and 4.4 the advancement of citizenship, enabling people who are in need to be active citizens individually and through employment or community organisations and networks.   | £12,098,756
<strong>CENTRE 404</strong> [Charity number: [299889](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299889)]<br>Provision of social and educational activites for adults with learning disabilities, clubs for children with learning disabilities and for their siblings, support and advice for parents and carers of a disabled person, supported housing projects for adults with a learning disability, and a calendar of social functions and outings for children and adults with a learning disability and their carers. | £10,599,564
<strong>KIDS</strong> [Charity number: [275936](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-275936)]<br>The purpose of KIDS is to enable disabled children and young people, along with their families, to enjoy their lives, in particular we assist disabled children and young people to develop their skills and abilities and to fulfil their potential, hopes and aspirations. Our services include Home Learning, Key Working, Play and Leisure, Short Breaks, Transitions and Sibling and Young Carer Support. | £9,412,007
<strong>ASPIRE LIVING LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1024904](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1024904)]<br>Aspire provides care and support to people with a learning disability both at home and in the community and to those living in residential care accommodation.  It runs a community hub, an online centre and a social club for adults.  Aspire also provides respite support for carers. | £8,826,994
<strong>CONTACT A FAMILY</strong> [Charity number: [284912](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-284912)]<br>To support parents and families who care for a disabled child by:- Providing access to good quality advice and information, broad ranging appropriate support and contact with other families which will lead to positive outcomes;- Influencing changes in policy and practice in order to substantially improve the quality of lives of parents and families and their children. | £8,758,116


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>GROWING HOPE MAIDSTONE</strong> [Charity number: [1210062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210062)]<br>1. THE ADVANCEMENT OF HEALTH AND WELLBEING FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY THE PROVISION OF A THERAPY CLINIC RUN IN ACCORDANCE WITH CHRISTIAN PRINCIPLES FOR CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE [0-18] WITH ADDITIONAL NEEDS AND THEIR FAMILIES LIVING IN THE MAIDSTONE AREA. IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, BY:A. REGISTERED HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS PROVIDING ASSESSMENT, ADVICE AND INTERVENTION AND OTHER SERVICES AS THE TRUSTEES OF THE CHARITY FROM TIME TO TIME THINK FIT.B. PROVISION OF SIBLING, PARENT AND CARER SUPPORT GROUPS AND COURSES AND OTHER SERVICES AS THE TRUSTEES OF THE CHARITY FROM TIME TO TIME THINK FIT.2. THE ADVANCEMENT OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT THROUGH:A. THE OPPORTUNITY TO ENGAGE IN CONVERSATION ABOUT FAITH AND SPIRITUAL WELLBEING;B. PROVIDING SUPPORT THAT ENABLES CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE WITH ADDITIONAL NEEDS, AND THEIR FAMILIES TO ACCESS PRAYER AND WORSHIP SERVICES;C. PROVIDING PASTORAL CARE AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR PRAYER AND OTHER SUCH ACTIVITIES AS THE TRUSTEES MAY FROM TIME TO TIME THINK FIT THAT ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT THE CHRISTIAN FAITH. | 
<strong>Dementia-Friendly Aberfeldy SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053275](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053275)]<br>The relief of those in need by reason of age and ill health, with a particular focus on those living with dementia through: (i) Raising awareness of dementia, (ii) Challenging the stigma and misconceptions about dementia, (iii) Working with people who are living with dementia and their carers to identify their needs within the community, (iv) Working collaboratively within the community to create opportunities for people with dementia and their carers so that they can remain engaged in their desired lifestyle for as long as possible, (v) Delivering programmes of activities for the benefit of older people and those with dementia, (vi) Providing carer support, (vii) Exploring new ideas to improve the lives of those affected by old age and dementia, (viii) Carry our similar projects, initiatives, or activities to advance the SCIO's charitable purpose. | £67,604
<strong>YMDDIRIEDOLAETH GOFALWYR GOGLEDD CYMRU – GWASANAETHAU GOFAL CROESFFYRDD CARERS TRUST NORTH WALES – CROSSROADS CARE SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1119142](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1119142)]<br>The charitable company is registered as a domiciliary care agency with the Care Inspectorate Wales, and employs trained carer support workers who work closely with families who have caring commitments.  We deliver home based respite and emotional support specifically to carers and their families, and we also provide weekly and monthly support groups. | £1,276,678
<strong>PRESTBURY MEMORIAL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [204970](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-204970)]<br>Home visits, liaison with statutory & non-statutory care workers, Lunch Club, Tuesday minibus supermarket trips, Sit & Fit & Scrabble, Knit & Natter, Friendship Groups (coach trips, birthdays)  minibus trips, Carers Support group, Co-ordination of minibus use by other local groups, special projects e.g. Christmas party, Warden Service, visits to the elderly and housebound in neighbourly capacity. | £31,215
<strong>LIFTING THE BLUES</strong> [Charity number: [1169498](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169498)]<br>The charity holds music cafe events which act as a way of providing support, education, information and advice for carers of people living with mental illness who live in Gloucestershire. To date the cafes have been held in Stroud. The charity has also made concerted efforts to raise awareness of the resources it provides for the benefit of carers of those with mental illness. | £3,000
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF HEADLEY WITH BOX HILL</strong> [Charity number: [1151029](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151029)]<br>Regular public worship open to all. The provision of sacred space for personal prayer and contemplation. Pastoral work including visiting the sick and bereaved. Teaching of Christianity through sermons, courses and small groups.  Promotion of Christianity through the staging of events and meetings.  Outreach to all villagers by providing a care team and a meeting point for carers. | £111,192
<strong>MANCHESTER CARERS FORUM</strong> [Charity number: [1103535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103535)]<br>Manchester Carers Forum acts as a voice of carers in raising awareness of the challenges which face carers. We support carers through peer support networks and by bringing carers together to reduce isolation.  We work at a strategic partnership level with carers support networks, local government and healthcare commissioning to ensure carers get the best support possible. | £359,497
<strong>SPA (PEGGY DODD) BATH</strong> [Charity number: [1058294](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1058294)]<br>The provision of Day respite care for carers of those suffering from Alzheimers, dementia, memory loss and for the sufferers themselves. | £928,585
<strong>THE HARLESTON INFORMATION PLUS CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1146735](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146735)]<br>To alleviate the difficulties faced by people living in Harleston and the surrounding area, Harleston Information Plus Charity provides a one stop information centre, runs a local community website, provides a befriending service, advice to job seekers and a weekly jobs club.  We also hold information events in the town | £66,272
<strong>OFF THE RECORD - BATH & NORTH EAST SOMERSET</strong> [Charity number: [1072322](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072322)]<br>Off the Record exists to improve the emotional health and wellbeing of young people by providing them with a safe space to be themselves. We provide a range of free services including counselling, listening support/coaching, youth participation, advocacy and specialist groups, such as a young parents group, support for care leavers and a LGBT focused youth group. | £873,987
