# Adult day care `SC101`

Adult day care is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social care](SC.md) category.

677 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.33% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(day ?(care|centre))\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`child|year olds`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 137 | 0.19%
£10k - £100k | 201 | 0.29%
£100k - £250k | 125 | 0.59%
£250k - £500k | 69 | 0.68%
£500k - £1m | 40 | 0.63%
£1m - £10m | 78 | 0.90%
Over £10m | 18 | 0.86%
Total | 668 | 0.35%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 594 | 0.35%
oscr | 62 | 0.25%
ccni | 21 | 0.29%
Total | 677 | 0.33%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ORDERS OF ST JOHN CARE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1048355](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1048355)]<br>To provide care to older people through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £146,839,345
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [296645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296645)]<br>Alzheimer's Society staff and volunteers provide services to people affected by dementia, including day care and home care, support and befriending services across England, Wales, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Northern Ireland. We provide information and training, and every year we invest in research. We campaign for the rights of people with dementia and those who care for them. | £131,362,000
<strong>Radius Housing Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI102575](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102575)]<br>Radius Housing Association provides housing, care and support to over 33,000 homes throughout Northern Ireland. Radius was established in 2017 following the merger of Helm and Fold housing associations and draws on over 80 years of combined experience to make a positive impact on housing and communities into the future. Radius is now one of the leading housing associations in Northern Ireland. Radius has also developed a range of services that allow us to offer our clients the right level of support in their own home or in our accommodation:- # Housing for Older People with Dementia and the Frail Elderly # Supported Housing # Day Care visits # Personal Pendant Alarms # Telemonitoring service (monitoring patient’s vital signs in their home) # Assistance for people with a disability to make home adaptations Radius's services are delivered in partnership with the Northern Ireland Housing Executive, the Department for Communities and the Health and Social Care Trusts. | £97,195,389
<strong>Enable Scotland (Leading The Way)</strong> [Charity number: [SC021731](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021731)]<br>The Company’s objects are to promote the welfare of people with learning disabilities by the promotion of services to them and their carers, including (without prejudice to the foregoing generality) services for:- (a) employment, training and occupation. (b) day care. (c) holidays and respite care. (d) domiciliary assistance. (e) advocacy. (f) education. (g) medical or nursing care. (h) financial and personal management and advice. and the foregoing may be promoted either by the Company making such provision itself or, insofar as it is charitable in Law, by the Company fostering, facilitating and encouraging such provision by others and to that end providing and promoting information, advice, assistance, education and research. The above objects shall be construed subject to the provision that they are charitable | £61,319,854
<strong>THE FREMANTLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1014986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014986)]<br>Providing care and support for older people and people with learning disabilities.  Services for older people include care homes, care homes with nursing, specialist dementia care, extra care and day care.  Respite care services are also offered.  Services for people with learning disabilities include supported living schemes, registered care homes, respite care and day activities. | £44,297,000
<strong>Ambient Support Limited</strong> [Charity number: [1135353](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135353)]<br>Provision of 24 hour care and support, which includes domiciliary care, residential care, nursing care, respite/short breaks, supported living, extra care, outreach and day care services. | £36,723,000
<strong>AVANTE CARE AND SUPPORT LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1002727](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1002727)]<br>Residential, Respite, Nursing & Day Care for older people, specialising in dementia care.Domiciliary care for older people. | £32,636,038
<strong>MILESTONES TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [294377](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294377)]<br>The Trust provides support to adults with learning disabilities and mental health needs. We offer Nursing and Residential Care in around 50 homes in the Bristol area, as well as Supported Living, Short Breaks, Day Care and Home Care. Services are tailored to meet individual needs and to support people to achieve their own goals. | £32,562,522
<strong>THE OXFORDSHIRE CARE PARTNERSHIP</strong> [Charity number: [1087554](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087554)]<br>To provide care to elderly people in Oxfordshire through care homes specialising in residential, dementia and nursing care, together with intermediate and day care.Care in the community is also provided in Oxfordshire in hospitals, at home and through the provision of extra care housing. | £29,130,257
<strong>Erskine Veterans Charity</strong> [Charity number: [SC006609](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC006609)]<br>(a) The provision of financial support to men and women with a current or former record of armed service or service in support of, or alongside the armed services together with dependents or surviving dependents of such personnel who find themselves in necessitous circumstances on terms which are most appropriate to their individual needs. (b) The provision of long term nursing care and short term and respite nursing care within the United Kingdom. (c) The provision of health care including residential long term care, residential short term and respite care, day care, domiciliary care and all appropriate relevant recreational and therapeutic programmes within the United Kingdom. (d) The creation of centres of excellence for nursing and residential care together with the creation of training opportunities for personnel involved in nursing and health care and medical and allied professions. (e) The provision of employment opportunities for individuals with physical or other disabilities, the provision of rehabilitation assessment and training for individuals with physical disabilities and other disadvantages which could be impediments to independent living. (f) The provision, construction, improvement, or management for persons who are aged or infirm or disabled or handicapped (whether mentally or physically) and in need thereof of housing and any associated amenities specially designed or adapted to meet the disabilities and requirements of such persons. | £27,017,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>IRTHLINGBOROUGH OLD PEOPLE'S WELFARE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [205308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-205308)]<br>The charity provides transport, day care activities and meals for our Monday Club for 30 people. On Tuesdays and Fridays Lunch Clubs are organised and run by volunteers. Approximately 100 meals per week are cooked on the premises. Other social activities such as trips and celebrations take place throughout the year. | £15,346
<strong>ST. AUGUSTINE'S DAY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1055650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1055650)]<br>Day care service for older people | £36,613
<strong>THE ORCHARD</strong> [Charity number: [311868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311868)]<br>The grounds are open to the General public and the buildings are used as a day centre for the provision of advice and support for older people | £46,389
<strong>Tranent Day Care Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC017663](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017663)]<br>The organisation is established for charitable purposes only, and in particular, the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial or other disadvantage by 4.1 promoting and running services for older people 4.2 encouraging training for those working with older people 4.3 bringing together representatives of statutory bodies, voluntary organisations and individuals with an interest in the welfare of older people 4.4 making representation on behalf of older people 4.5 making available information to, for and on behalf of older people | £161,385
<strong>AGE UK LEICESTER SHIRE AND RUTLAND LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1146649](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146649)]<br>DAYCARE,HOME CARE, DROP IN CENTRES, VISITING SCHEMES, COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SCHEME, CAMPAIGNING, AWARENESS, SERVICES INTO RESIDENTIAL HOMES, INFORMATION AND ADVICE, ADVOCACY  SPECIALIST INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL PRODUCTS, SUPPORT AND SERVICES TO LOCAL GROUPS, HANDYMAN SCHEME, TRANSPORT, TRAINING SERVICES AND FUNDRAISING. | £7,018,094
<strong>ALLY Foyle</strong> [Charity number: [NI102595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102595)]<br>ALLY Foyle (Active living in later years) is a network of older people’s groups in the Derry City Council area and was formed in August 2004. Membership to the network is made up of different groups - community & voluntary groups, active ageing clubs, day care centres, residential & sheltered homes and organisations providing services to older people. These clubs and groups are all independently managed and we co-ordinate and liase between the groups. The groups hail from a variety of social, religious and socio-economic backgrounds. They are located in both urban and rural areas of the Foyle. We provide tutors and facilitators to deliver social, recreational, physical and creative programmes and activities to older people to increase their mental health and well-being. | £41,039
<strong>OXFORDSHIRE CHINESE COMMUNITY AND ADVICE CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1006710](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1006710)]<br>1.Bilingual information, advice, interpreting and translation services 2.Bilingual computing and English classes, talks and training courses3.Day care services to look after elderly and vulnerable members4.Recreational, cultural and community activities5.Home visitation for the socially isolated, & elderly and those living with long-term or mental illnesses. | £160,843
<strong>BELL VIEW (BELFORD)</strong> [Charity number: [1075896](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1075896)]<br>BELL VIEW (BELFORD) OPERATES FROM A FULLY INTEGRATED MULTI-USE RESOURCE CENTRE TO SUPPORT AND ENABLE OLDER, VULNERABLE, DISABLED OR DISADVANTAGED PEOPLE AND THEIR CARERS TO "LIVE WELL".  THIS INCLUDES PROVIDING FACILITIES FOR DAY CARE, LEISURE, CREATIVE AND SOCIAL ACTIVITIES AND THERAPEUTIC SERVICES, AS WELL AS PROVIDING OFFICE AND MEETING ACCOMMODATION FOR SERVICE PROVIDERS AND COMMUNITY GROUPS. | £1,741,729
<strong>Dalbeattie & District Community Day Centre For Older People</strong> [Charity number: [SC004912](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004912)]<br>To promote the welfare of  older people in a manner which now or hereafter may be deemed by law to be charitable by:- 1. Promoting and running the Dalbeattie and District Day Centre. 2. Promoting, providing or assisting by voluntary and financial means anything which will improve the quality and standard of Dalbeattie & District Day Centre service. 3. Creating, encouraging, fostering and maintaining the interest of the public by providing a link between the Dalbeattie & District Day Centre and the community which it serves. 4.  Giving support to older people living in the community by offering opportunities for social integration and shared activities. 5. Assisting older people to keep their independence and to re-establish confidence where it may have been lost.  6. Enabling older people to maintain and renew friendships and bring a new dimension into their lives.  7. Giving support to carers when appropriate to do so. | £141,804
<strong>Mountfield Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102986](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102986)]<br>Mountfield Community Association is a voluntary organisation offering a range of community, social and environmental activities to meet the needs of the people of Mountfield and its surrounding area. Our aim is to develop Mountfield as a place where people want to live, where our residents feel safe, where people want to visit and revisit. We provide a range of activities, training courses, educational and recreational classes, events, charity functions etc. for various age groups, gender, foreign nationals, cross community and disabled including: ICT; cookery classes; first aid classes; drama club; dancing classes; youth club; day care; concerts; discos/dances; recreational classes; alternative therapies; whist/card games; coffee mornings; self defence classes; age concern; addiction awareness; indoor sports; language classes; kids parties; funeral meals. Over the years the Community Association have organised numerous fundraising and community events including sports days, festivals, sponsored cycles and walks, concerts, treasure hunts, bus trips, Christmas events (kids Santa party), Village Christmas tree and lights, senior citizens dinner. All these events are well supported by the community. We work closely with the community including our local Primary school, youth club, senior citizens group and drama to name but a few. We also act as a voice for their development. This puts us at the heart of our community enabling proactive engagement to take place for the well being of all that reside in the community. | £61,442
