# Saving of lives `SL`

Saving of lives is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Saving of lives](SL.md) category.

3,676 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.81% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(saving of (human )?(life|lives))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,241 | 1.74%
£10k - £100k | 1,207 | 1.72%
£100k - £250k | 341 | 1.54%
£250k - £500k | 164 | 1.51%
£500k - £1m | 113 | 1.68%
£1m - £10m | 175 | 1.93%
Over £10m | 99 | 4.51%
Total | 3,340 | 1.74%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,857 | 1.67%
oscr | 690 | 2.79%
ccni | 129 | 1.79%
Total | 3,676 | 1.81%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £398,900,000
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £339,366,903
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £339,336,903
<strong>MSI REPRODUCTIVE CHOICES</strong> [Charity number: [265543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265543)]<br>MSI Reproductive Choices is one of the world's leading providers of sexual and reproductive healthcare. We believe that everyone should have the right to choose. From contraception to safe abortion and life-saving post- abortion care, we are committed to delivering compassionate, high- quality services. Our 9,000 team members work across 37 countries, reaching over 35,000 women each day. | £309,542,000
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £287,100,000
<strong>The British Red Cross Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC037738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037738)]<br>To provide assistance to victims of armed conflicts.  To work for the improvement of health for the prevention of disease and for the prevention and alleviation of human suffering in the British Islands and throughout the world. | £287,100,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £275,575,689
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £271,466,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £251,300,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MERTHYR VALLEYS HOMES’ PEOPLE FUND (CRONFA POBL CARTREFI CYMOEDD MERTHYR)</strong> [Charity number: [1158328](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158328)]<br>To relieve poverty or financial hardship in Merthyr Tydfil, South Wales by assisting tenants of Merthyr Valleys Homes Ltd with losses following a major disaster or incident (eg without limitation flooding, fire or theft) where the tenant, through lack of finance or otherwise, would find it difficult to pay, as the charity trustees shall in their absolute discretion decide from time to time. | £10,000
<strong>IT'S HUMANITY FOUNDATION, UK</strong> [Charity number: [1201232](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1201232)]<br>For the public benefit to promote the education and protection of children in Bangladesh in such ways asthe charity trustees think fit, including support for free access to primary education, basic healthcareservices, training in vocational skills and emergency relief. | £50,389
<strong>BROAD STREET AREA - COMMUNITY COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [265456](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265456)]<br>Monthly meetings provide a forum for all Broad Street area residents to bring problems and concerns to our attention and appropriate action taken.A platform for other organisations and bodies, including borough councillors to engage with residents.We provide representation at relevant Planning, Councils, Police consultation, Regeneration, Tasking Group and any other relevant meetings and forum | 
<strong>BADGER TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1111440](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111440)]<br>Badger Trust is a registered charity which promotes the conservation, welfare and protection of badgers, their setts and their habitats. It represents and supports local voluntary badger groups throughout Britain, provides expert advice on all badger issues and works closely with the RSPCA, the police and others. | £301,448
<strong>National All Star Skills Academy</strong> [Charity number: [1114835](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1114835)]<br>National All Star Skills Academy (NASSA) engages young people in sports to promote positive activities, tackle social issues, and build life skills. Key initiatives include knife crime education through Carry A Basketball Not A Blade, first aid training via the London Air Ambulance project, and coaching qualifications. NASSA partners with schools and community services to support diverse youth. | £342,754
<strong>FORTEL AID</strong> [Charity number: [1141746](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1141746)]<br>1. Help relieve suffering among victims of natural or other kind of disasters, in India and other developing countries; 2. Provide resources by working with local groups in India and other developing countries to overcome poverty;3. Fulfilling of such other purposes as may from time to time be recognised by English Law as being charitable, ie. to support UK charities and local communities | 
<strong>ANYWAA SURVIVAL ORGANISATION ASO</strong> [Charity number: [1095360](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095360)]<br>We provide training, advice, relief of poverty,overseas aid/famine relief,employment, economic development, environment conservation, medical, health and sickness and heritage. | 
<strong>AMBULANCE HERITAGE SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1145874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145874)]<br>preserving Ambulance Service vehicles,equipment and memorabilia to enable education of our future generations | £15,991
<strong>THANDIZO</strong> [Charity number: [1150152](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150152)]<br>1. The promotion of sustainable development in Malawi.2. The relief (in any part of the world) of financial need and suffering among victims of natural or other kinds of disaster.3. The prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship (in any part of the world) by providing grants, items and services. | £68,957
<strong>JACOBS FUTURA FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1208303](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208303)]<br>(A) ADVANCING AND PROMOTING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL (AND PARTICULARLY AMONGST SCIENTISTS AND ENGINEERS) BY MAKING GRANTS AND AWARDS TO STUDENTS IN EDUCATION, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ADVANCING AND PROMOTING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN GENERAL BY MAKING GRANTS TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN RELATION TO CONSERVATION, PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT;(B) ADVANCING THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN SUBJECTS RELATING TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT AND THE PROTECTION, ENHANCEMENT AND REHABILITATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE PROMOTION OF STUDY AND RESEARCH IN SUCH SUBJECTS AND DISSEMINATION OF THE USEFUL RESULTS OF SUCH STUDIES TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE;(C) PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC BY: (I) THE PRESERVATION, CONSERVATION AND THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE PRUDENT USE OF RESOURCES;(II) THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE CONDITIONS OF LIFE IN SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES;(III) THE PROMOTION OF SUSTAINABLE MEANS OF ACHIEVING ECONOMIC GROWTH AND REGENERATION.(D) ADVANCING AND PROMOTING FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THE CONSERVATION PROTECTION AND IMPROVEMENT OF THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT BY MAKING GRANTS TO SUCH PERSONS, BODIES AND, ORGANISATIONS AND/OR COUNTRIES FOR THE PURPOSES OF CONSERVING, PROTECTING AND/OR IMPROVING THE PHYSICAL AND NATURAL ENVIRONMENT ANYWHERE IN THE WORLD(E) RELIEVING FINANCIAL NEED AND SUFFERING AMONG VICTIMS OF NATURAL OR OTHER KINDS OF DISASTER IN THE FORM OF MONEY (OR OTHER MEANS DEEMED SUITABLE) FOR PERSONS, BODIES, ORGANISATIONS AND/OR COUNTRIES AFFECTED; (F) RELIEVING AND ASSISTING PEOPLE IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD WHO ARE THE VICTIMS OF WAR OR NATURAL DISASTER, TROUBLE, OR CATASTROPHE IN PARTICULAR BY MAKING GRANTS TO SUCH PERSONS, BODIES AND, ORGANISATIONS AND/OR COUNTRIES FOR THE PURPOSES OF RELIEVING AND ASSISTING THE SUFFERING OF SUCH AFFECTED PEOPLE IN ANY PART OF THE WORLD; AND(G) ADVANCING PHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR YOUNG PEOPLE INCLUDING THROUGH PROVIDING OR ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT WHICH ENABLE YOUNG PEOPLE (AND IN PARTICULAR YOUNG PEOPLE WHO DEMONSTRATE EXCEPTIONAL COMMITMENT AND/OR ABILITY IN THE WORLD OF SPORT) TO PARTICIPATE IN SPORTING ACTIVITIES IN THE INTEREST OF HEALTHY RECREATION OR THE ADVANCEMENT OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION.(H) ADVANCING SUCH CHARITABLE PURPOSES (ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF ENGLAND AND WALES) AS THE TRUSTEES SEE FIT FROM TIME TO TIME.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE ORGANISATION'S OBJECTS, SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT MEANS ‘DEVELOPMENT WHICH MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE PRESENT WITHOUT COMPROMISING THE ABILITY OF FUTURE GENERATIONS TO MEET THEIR OWN NEEDS.’ | £16,015,133
