# Search and rescue `SL103`

Search and rescue is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Saving of lives](SL.md) category.

477 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.24% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(mountain rescue|search and rescue|life[ -]saving|lifeguards?|life boats?|rescue services?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 121 | 0.16%
£10k - £100k | 206 | 0.30%
£100k - £250k | 44 | 0.21%
£250k - £500k | 24 | 0.24%
£500k - £1m | 14 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 14 | 0.16%
Over £10m | 11 | 0.53%
Total | 434 | 0.23%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 376 | 0.22%
oscr | 83 | 0.33%
ccni | 18 | 0.25%
Total | 477 | 0.24%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>MSI REPRODUCTIVE CHOICES</strong> [Charity number: [265543](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-265543)]<br>MSI Reproductive Choices is one of the world's leading providers of sexual and reproductive healthcare. We believe that everyone should have the right to choose. From contraception to safe abortion and life-saving post- abortion care, we are committed to delivering compassionate, high- quality services. Our 9,000 team members work across 37 countries, reaching over 35,000 women each day. | £414,355,000
<strong>BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [225971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-225971)]<br>The BHF is the UK's largest independent funder of cardiovascular research in the UK. For over 60 years BHF has pioneered life-saving research that has helped halve the number of deaths from heart and circulatory disease in the UK. BHF also helps provide vital support and information for the 7.4m people living in the UK with heart and circulatory disease. | £381,300,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £249,600,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [209603](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209603)]<br>To save lives, promote safety and rescue service efficiency, and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters; to advance the education of the public in matters relating to sea, inland and flood water safety, and in the history and heritage of the Institution; to relieve/assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity. | £231,800,000
<strong>THE ROYAL MARSDEN CANCER CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1095197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095197)]<br>The Charity's objects are to raise money solely to allow The Royal Marsden Foundation Trust to fund state-of-the-art equipment and groundbreaking research, create the best patient environments, and ensure its nurses, doctors and research teams can provide the very best care and develop life-saving treatments which are used here in the UK and around the world. | £34,374,000
<strong>Oxfam Ireland</strong> [Charity number: [NI100848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100848)]<br>Oxfam Northern Ireland, together with Oxfam Republic of Ireland, is an independent affiliate member of the global Oxfam International Confederation . Our purpose is to help create lasting solutions to the injustice of poverty. Our role is to enable transformational change; to open political space, building capacity and sharing technical expertise, raising funds and public support, leveraging our own resources to multiply funds, providing strategic funding to partners and carrying out humanitarian work that integrates life-saving response in times of crisis with building resilience We focus on three key areas as follows: • Practical support for the long-term development efforts of communities and people affected by chronic poverty • The urgent relief of suffering caused by humanitarian crises, whether natural or man-made • Campaigning & advocacy to change the policies and practices of public and private institutions that effect the lives of people living in poverty In order to achieve our purpose, we raise funds from government, trusts and other foundations, through our chain of shops and via fundraising events, legacies and from the general public. We also work to raise public awareness on the underlying causes of global poverty and injustice and offer the public a variety of channels through which they can engage with our work to bring about positive changes in the lives of people who are living in poverty. We campaign and lobby key decision-makers and institutions to bring about pro poor policy changes at all levelsand we bring the voices of the poor to key-decision-making forums. | £18,985,000
<strong>HEALTH LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [290535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-290535)]<br>We work to improve the health of the world's poorest people, ensuring people who otherwise would have no support receive basic but life-saving health care and education. | £14,710,171
<strong>KIDNEY RESEARCH UK</strong> [Charity number: [252892](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-252892)]<br>To fund and deliver life-saving research into kidney diseases. To improve treatments for people with kidney diseases and enhance their quality of life and to increase awareness of kidney health. | £14,490,766
<strong>UK CURRICULUM AND ACCREDITATION BODY (UKCAB)</strong> [Charity number: [1153197](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1153197)]<br>1) Educate people about renal problems and renal failure, Initial stage problems and remedies, Dialysis and its types, Motivation during this life saving treatment, Motivate people to register as Organ Donation.2) Educate people for clean drinking water, 3) Education for All without borders, race and religion.4) Feed the needy & homeless.5) Vocational Education for Girls. | £13,429,280
<strong>The Workforce Development Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC045901](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045901)]<br>2.1 The objects for which the company is established are to support the development and effective use of workforce skills to provide services for the public good through: 2.1.1 preserving and protecting good health. 2.1.2 the sound administration of the law. 2.1 .3 the efficiency of the police, the armed forces of the Crown and the fire and rescue services. 2.1.4 Financial Services. and 2.1 .5 the efficient public administration of government and public service and the strategic development of the Health Service workforce. 2.2 In particular but not exclusively by: 2.2.1 advancing the education, training and skills of existing and future workforces in those sectors. 2.2.2 researching, analysing and interpreting the operational requirements of the relevant sector workforces. 2.2.3 setting nationally recognised competencies for job specific training and awards to create an effective workforce in the above sectors. 2.2.4 analysing and interpreting the operational requirements in the workforces of the above sectors to define role profiles expressed in the terms of the applicable national occupation standards or other industry standards. 2.2 .5 creating competency frameworks for a sector, through job analysis and mapping existing education and training, identifying gaps and inconsistencies. 2.2.6 the creation of qualifications and other forms of accreditation that recognise the attainment of competent practice. and 2.2.7 the identification, design and recognition of continuing professional development that ensures sector employees are able to maintain and demonstrate competence on an on-going basis. | £10,362,406


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Skye Mountain Rescue Team</strong> [Charity number: [SC038386](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038386)]<br>4.1 The saving of lives directly or indirectly through the provision of a voluntary mountain rescue service, on the Island of Skye and such other areas of the Scottish Highlands and Islands, for any person or persons suffering accident or injury, or who may be lost, immobilised or otherwise be in need of such mountain rescue services as tasked by the police and as directed by the organisation team leader or depute team leaders. and to assist in the recovery of the bodies of those persons who have sustained a fatal accident in those areas or such other places.  4.2. As directed by the police to assist and, where appropriate, organise and cooperate with other rescue bodies and also other climbers or hill users (not being members of the organisation) to further the mountain rescue services described in clause 4.1.  4.3. To acquire, maintain and hold in readiness all premises, equipment and apparatus necessary for providing the mountain rescue services described in clause 4.1 .  | £84,639
<strong>Search And Rescue Dog Association (Ireland North)</strong> [Charity number: [NI101234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101234)]<br>SARDA (IN) is a voluntary search and rescue organisation that provides qualified search dogs which are specifically trained to search for persons missing in a variety of terrain notably, mountainous, lowland areas (including open country and forests), and collapsed structures locally and internationally. We also provide a drowned victim search dog to locate person/s missing in rivers, lakes and sea. The standards of training and assessment that we employ are key to SARDA resources being requested by police forces and statutory agencies across the UK. The primary purpose of SARDA (IN) is to assist in the location of persons reported as missing in various environments. We assist other search teams including the PSNI, MMRT, NWMRT, Marine Coastal Agency, Community Rescue Service and the NIFRS. Further to this we also offer assistance to mountain rescue teams in South of Ireland through the Gardai. In essence we offer assistance to all the statutory agencies and voluntary teams as required but respond primarily to Police Service of Northern Ireland as primary tasking agency. All of our principles are based upon our mission statement being “..... to assist in the search and rescue of persons missing or in difficulties in inhospitable terrain and open country, collapsed structures or watercourses and to promote the use of search dogs and the work and activities of the Search And Rescue Dog Association (Ireland North).” | £123,210
<strong>WEYMOUTH SURF LIFE SAVING CLUB</strong> [Charity number: [1198020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1198020)]<br>Beach Lifeguard skillsWater SafetyBeach EnvironmentSearch and RescueCoachingResuscitation, and First Aid. | £10,299
<strong>Kintail Mountain Rescue Association (Team)</strong> [Charity number: [SC004625](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004625)]<br>(a) To create and maintain a team of trained personnel to give voluntary aid to anyone suffering accidents in the area, provided that the call is received from the proper authorities. (b) To give assistance in accidents and searches where the abilities of the team can assist, provided that the call is received from the proper authorities. (c) To acquire and maintain stocks of suitable equipment. | £19,037
<strong>UKLSI</strong> [Charity number: [1139266](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139266)]<br>UKLSI was established in 2003 (Charity in 2011) by members from Lowland Search and Rescue (SAR) teams to teach and share best practise in lowland vulnerable missing person search.  UKLSI members are unpaid volunteers from the Instructors to the chefs to the course administrator and are operationally active in their county SAR teams.  12 search courses delivered annually to SAR volunteer students. | £15,174
<strong>SEARCH AND RESCUE DOG ASSOCIATION (WALES)</strong> [Charity number: [506056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506056)]<br>To assist in the Search and Rescue of persons missing or in difficulties in inhospitable terrain and open country particularly in Wales | £16,142
<strong>THE DERBY MOUNTAIN RESCUE TEAM BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1082045](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082045)]<br>Provides support to members of Derby Mountain Rescue Team, a charity which saves lives and alleviates distress mainly in upland and mountainous areas and which additionally undertakes searches of lowland and rural areas for missing persons when requested by the Police. | 
<strong>BROTHERHOOD DEFIB FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1189371](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1189371)]<br>Providing life saving defibrillators to the public | £3,105
<strong>DARTMOOR SEARCH AND RESCUE TEAM (ASHBURTON)</strong> [Charity number: [1202623](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202623)]<br>Helping lost, vulnerable or injured people on Dartmoor. | 
<strong>Fintry Kirk Resilience and Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC053526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053526)]<br>The saving of lives: to be a Resilience Centre for ‘The Community. Although Fintry village is only 50 minutes north of Glasgow we are an isolated rural community with no shops, post office, bus route, etc.  Located in the Endrick River catchment area, we are prone to flooding and severe weather which is not just confined to the winter months.  Fintry Community Council have drawn up a Resilience Plan with Stirling Council.  Central to this plan is a designated ‘Resilience Centre’ for the community.  This centre is to utilise the buildings that were previously the Church and its Session House.  There are plans to hold first aid course, safety and defibrillator training, etc. throughout the year to ensure that our community is as well prepared as we can be in the event of adversity.  The Trust will work with Fintry Community Council and its Resilience team to: • provide a safe haven for ‘The Community’ in the event of disaster. • be a base for the Trossachs Search and Rescue teams when deployed into the Campsie Fells, Fintry Hills and Carron Reservoir areas. • offer facilities such as an independent power source, kitchen, accommodation, toilets, first aid, defibrillator and other facilities in support of the Fintry Council Resilience Plan. • Provide first aid courses, safety and defibrillator training, etc. to ensure that our community is as well prepared as we can be in the event of adversity. The advancement of citizenship. The village and its surrounds is a rural and dispersed community.  Only a handful of people commute out of the Parish.  The reality of access in and out of the Parish, particularly over the winter months and with no public transport, is extremely difficult and sometimes impossible.  All four roads out of the village (the B822 Fintry to Lennoxtown, the B818 Fintry to Denny, the B822 Fintry to Kippen and the B818 Fintry to Killearn), are “low priority”.  This has resulted in parishioners choosing to work from home and run their businesses from there without having to leave the community.  Isolation is a particular problem, not just for the extensive farming community. There are three registered SCIOs in the area (The Hall, The Sports Club and the Fintry Development Trust), all have specific purposes.  There are also other non-SCIO organisations within the community (for instance The Hub, Courtyard Cafe and the Community Council). The Community Council envisage that our Trust will be a unifying entity that will facilitate integrated activity linking all the organisations within our community to advance community development and citizenship.  An example could be a wedding ceremony held in the building that was the Church followed by a reception in the Village Hall.  This overarching community and citizenship role would: • prevent individuals from becoming socially excluded. • assist people to live better, safer or more fulfilled lives by encouraging social inclusion and interaction. • extending the activities of community organisations into new areas or to a wider range of beneficiaries. • support networks that bring community organisations together and facilitating partnerships. • provide space for Roman Catholics, Baptists, Methodists, Humanists, etc who have all indicated they wish to use the building that was the Church, for their services and meetings.  Previously, denominations and organisations that were not Church of Scotland were precluded from using these facilities. • build on and maintain partnerships between community groups and organisations that contribute to local decision making. • offer buildings or equipment which benefits the community through providing facilities, activities and services that help promote people’s ability to participate in community life. The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture. Our small Museum, based in the Sports Club, has insufficient space to store or display its artifacts.   MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED - PLEASE CONTACT CHARITY FOR FULL PURPOSES | 
