# Emergency services `SL101`

Emergency services is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Saving of lives](/data/ukcat/SL) category.

946 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.47% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(police|fire service|fire(- )?fighters?|paramedics?|ambulance|first responders)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 389 | 0.49%
£10k - £100k | 301 | 0.44%
£100k - £250k | 72 | 0.38%
£250k - £500k | 54 | 0.61%
£1m - £10m | 44 | 0.58%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.29%
Over £10m | 14 | 0.79%
Total | 890 | 0.47%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 750 | 0.44%
oscr | 130 | 0.51%
ccni | 66 | 1.00%
Total | 946 | 0.47%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE PRIORY OF ENGLAND AND THE ISLANDS OF THE MOST VENERABLE ORDER OF THE HOSPITAL OF ST. JOHN OF JERUSALEM</strong> [Charity number: [1077265](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1077265)]<br>Provide First Aid Training, First Aid Services, Ambulance Services, Youth Services | £92,300,000
<strong>THE AIR AMBULANCE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1098874](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1098874)]<br>Operator of two Helicopter Emergency Services, and the Children's Air Ambulance transfer service. | £25,375,000
<strong>ESSEX & HERTS AIR AMBULANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1108989](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1108989)]<br>To provide pre hospital care mainly with a Helicopter Emergency Medical Service, supported by rapid response vehicles. | £16,590,935
<strong>KENT, SURREY & SUSSEX AIR AMBULANCE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1021367](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1021367)]<br>Air Ambulance service in South East England and surrounding areas. | £16,268,615
<strong>The Odyssey Trust Company Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI100113](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100113)]<br>Purpose 1: The construction (completed in 2001), ongoing maintenance, revenue and capital funding for an interactive science centre (known as w5) at Queens Quay in Belfast. The facility includes 3 floors of permanent exhibits, space for temporary exhibitions, laboratories for use by schools/groups, state of the art lecture theatre and meeting rooms. Space is allocated for specialist education and demonstration staff in addition to operations and administrative employees. The day to day management of the Science Centre is by Whowhatwherewhenwhy(w5) by way of a lease. W5 is a charity with related objects and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Odyssey Trust. The facility is open 362 days per year to the general public. In 2012/13 w5 catered for 302,452 visitors (including outreach) including 48,958 in formal education groups. Purpose 2: The construction (completed in 2000), ongoing maintenance, revenue and capital funding for a 10,000 seat multipurpose indoor arena (known as the Odyssey Arena) at Queens Quay Belfast. The facility caters for a wide range of events including concerts, family shows, theatre style shows and sports events. Sports events include Ice Hockey, Athletics, Basket Ball, Horse of the year show, indoor football, arenacross, darts, boxing, wrestling and the recent World Police and Fire games. Formats of the Arena cater for audiences of 2,500 up to 10,800. The Arena is managed under an operation contract on a day to day basis by SMG, an international arena operator. In the year 2012/13 the Arena audiences totalled 626,868 through 117 events. | £16,198,460
<strong>EAST ANGLIAN AIR AMBULANCE</strong> [Charity number: [1083876](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083876)]<br>The relief of sickness and injury  by the provision of emergency medical services and equipment and in particular by the provision of a helicopter air ambulance service or other emergency transportation wholly or mainly within the area served by the East of England Ambulance Service NHS Trust. | £14,834,608
<strong>WELSH AIR AMBULANCE CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1083645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1083645)]<br>The charity objects are specifically restricted to the following:"the relief of sickness and injury and the protection of human life by the provision and support of both road vehicles and air ambulances in Wales" | £14,516,000
<strong>MIDLANDS AIR AMBULANCE CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1143118](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1143118)]<br>Midlands Air Ambulance Charity, FORMERLY COUNTY AIR AMBULANCE & MIDLANDS AIR AMBULANCE CHARITY REGISTRATION NO. 1001064; is responsible for funding and operating 3 air ambulances serving the communities of Gloucestershire, Herefordshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Worcestershire and the West Midlands. One of the largest Air Ambulance operators in England and Wales. | £13,913,000
<strong>LONDON'S AIR AMBULANCE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [801013](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801013)]<br>The relief of sickness and physical injury by the provision of emergency medical services and equipment and in particular by the provision of a helicopter ambulance service or other emergency transport.The provision of training, research and education in the field of pre-hospital medicine for the treatment and/or prevention of sickness and physical injury. | £13,608,076
<strong>POLICE NOW</strong> [Charity number: [1168427](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168427)]<br>Police Now's mission is to transform communities, reduce crime and increase the public's confidence in policing, by recruiting and developing outstanding and diverse individuals to be leaders in society and on the policing front line.Police Now, an innovative scheme aiming to transform challenged communities and develop a new generation of inspiring leaders from a diverse range of backgrounds. | £13,322,368


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Heston Rovers Football Club [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC050301](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050301)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To promote the advancement of public participation in sport and the provision of recreational activities or organisation of recreational activities, to encourage and promote the development of football for the benefit of the local community specifically but not exclusively, young persons. 4.2 The club will provide a safe and healthy environment promoting development of football and health through the provision of children's, youth and senior teams that foster fair play and participation for all, irrespective of race, colour, religion, sex, sexuality or disabilities. 4.3 The club shall encourage co-operation, respect for others, loyalty, acceptance of rules and decisions, personal responsibility, self-discipline and the need for team work. It must be a great place to volunteer and to be a part of, with an emphasis on fun, teamwork and mutual respect for one another 4.4 The club shall promote participation in football by; 4.4.1 Welcoming new players, irrespective of ability or physical condition and encouraging participation in all development activities of the Club. 4.4.2 Providing equal opportunities for successful participation by all sections of the community. 4.4.3 Assisting all players to improve their sporting skills and personal development through coaching, training and the opportunity to participate in football games, festivals or other tournaments, whether competitive or non-competitive in accordance with the Scottish Football Association's Player Pathway. 4.4.4 Providing all players with training by qualified coaches, irrespective of the player's level of skill. All training must follow Scottish Football Association guidance, allowing every individual the opportunity to benefit from football drills, game related practice and other development techniques. 4.4.5 Working closely with other agencies & organisations including schools, businesses, Police, and Dumfries and Galloway Council. 4.4.6 Promoting physical activity and a healthy lifestyle to all players. 4.4.7 Providing a pathway for younger players to the club's senior team. | 
<strong>SOUTHWATER RESPONDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1127511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127511)]<br>VOLUNTARY WORK ON BEHALF OF THE STATUTORY AMBULANCE SERVICE. ATTENDING EMERGENCY CALLS TO OFFER FIRST AID BEFORE THE AMBULANCE ARRIVES | £12,406
<strong>Scottish Fire & Rescue Service Retired Employees Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC038429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038429)]<br>The aims and objectives of the Association shall be:- To advance the participation in sport by encouraging members to participate in sporting activities, which, it is proposed, the Association will arrange throughout each year To advance citizenship and community development by:  Utilising the skills and experience of members for assisting Strathclyde Fire & Rescue in promoting Community Safety through helping to raise awareness, mostly but not exclusively amongst the elderly sector of the general public, of the risks posed by fire in the home and of the preventative measures which can be taken to protect against harm from fire. Promoting and maintaining the social inclusion of members with Strathclyde Fire & Rescue. Promoting and maintaining contact amongst members thus affording former colleagues and friends the opportunity to mutually enrich each other's lives in retirement. Promoting and maintaining the best values of Strathclyde Fire & Rescue which the members enjoyed as serving employees, such as camaraderie, charity fundraising, public spiritedness and mutual assistance.  To advance education, citizenship, heritage and culture by ; Raising awareness amongst the general public to acts of heroism and sacrifice by fire service personnel employed by Strathclyde Fire Board and its statutory predecessors and by personnel employed by the former Glasgow Salvage Corps Establishing and maintaining suitable dignified memorials to commemorate the bravery of such personnel Repairing , preserving and maintaining existing memorials to such personnel killed in the line of duty. | £945
<strong>Wounded Police & Families Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI102468](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102468)]<br>The Association is established to provide support and self help group for the member/carer, to provide and or to promote opportunities for the member(S) to network and help manage social isolation. To Share information and disseminate such information about what helps services are available, to help members plan for the future and better manage financial concerns. To Outreach to other comparable organisations, to improve self image and worth and to promote such actions to assist such goals. At the discretion of the Management Committee, to raise issues with appropriate authorities on matters general or personal (Individual). It is the policy of NIWPFA to encourage peace and reconciliation and respecting all communities irrespective of religious, cultural or political beliefs and differences of those communities. | £30,918
<strong>Kilmacormick I Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI100800](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100800)]<br>Our organisation provides a base for a number of services and activities, as well as giving our community a voice and ensuring our needs and concerns are being met by the relevant statutory agencies. The different bodies on which we are represented are: - NIHE District Housing Forum - Neighbourhood Renewal Partnership and sub-groups - Devenish Partnership Forum - Early Years Forum - Inter-Agency Group which includes representatives from; DRD, NIHE, Fermanagh District Council, PSNI and Supporting Communities NI. - Police and Community Safety Partnership The main role of our community association is to oversee the management of Kilmacormick Resource Centre. This centre provides a base for the following: - Childcare facility - Meetings of our community group and other local community groups - Forget-me-not group (Older women’s group) - Youth group - Homework Club - Senior citizen’s - Neighbourhood renewal sub group meetings - Lakeland players drama group - Supporting Communities Office space - Computer suite which can be used by specific groups and is also open for use by the wider community - Job club | £16,559
<strong>WREXHAM RURAL COMMUNITY FIRST RESPONDERS</strong> [Charity number: [1186910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186910)]<br>We act as Community First Responders and attend patients who have made an emergency call to Welsh Ambulance Service. We provide the necessary immediate care until additional clinical resources arrive. | £18,759
<strong>Beyond The Battlefield</strong> [Charity number: [NI100198](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100198)]<br>Beyond the Battlefield work daily and tirelessly with Veterans who are all counselled and assessed free of charge. We listen to veterans needs Everyone is in agreement that Northern Ireland veterans require a centre where they can go in confidence to feel safe in the knowledge that who they are speaking to can be trusted. This will be a centre where all their issues are dealt with. It will be used for counselling ‘dealing with benefits’ housing’ pensions’ compensation as well as conferences Beyond the Battlefield believe that a Veterans centre will be to the benefit of everyone and will also bring massive benefits to the town of Newtownards. The veterans centre will create employment and tourism. There will be an increase in trade to the town and to our traders who have suffered badly due to the high unemployment over the last few years. There will be massive benefits to our Veterans and to all the services such as the Health service’ the Police’ The mental health services’ and to family doctors who will for the first time be able to get Veterans the proper treatment they need in order to move on with their lives. The benefit to the families and to communities will also be immense as Wives get husbands back ‘Children get their fathers back and our Veterans getting the pride back they had whilst serving our country. Beyond the battlefield aims to become Northern Ireland own service charity with our own Veterans centre. Northern Ireland Veterans presenting with PTSD region by region are the highest in the UK which is not surprising given the fact that our Veterans were on constant active service for almost 35 years. To many Veterans and their families are suffering its up to us as a society to make sure they get a fair deal and receive the thanks they deserve for keeping us safe. | £63,844
<strong>Tamlaght Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [NI104793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104793)]<br>We liaise with the Council, Housing Execute, Road Service and other bodies and meet with them regularly to walk the local area and raise issues such as street lighting, poor road surfaces and other issues that the public bodies are responsible for. We meet as a committee monthly to discuss any relevant issues and plan for any forth-coming activities or fund-raising events. We represent the locality at the monthly Enniskillen Community Forum meetings where we meet with the PSNI to raise issues of anti-social behaviour and crime in the area and share with the community any crime prevention materials or information of use from the police. We organise children's parties throughout the year and events for older people as well as outings for families at least once a year. When asked we will act as mediators in any disputes liaising with police, Housing Executive and other relevant bodies. We organise training on things such as CPR and also talks on issues on issues of interest recent examples of which include healthy eating or eating on a budget. | £1,927
<strong>URBAN LAWYERS</strong> [Charity number: [1165914](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165914)]<br>PROVIDE ACCESS TO LEGAL KNOWLEDGE FOR YOUG PEOPLE, BY DELIVERING INTERACTIVE WORKSHOPS IN SCHOOLS AND COMMUNITIES, WHICH ENGAGE AND STIMULATE YOUNG PEOPLE IN DISCUSSIONS ABOUT THEIR ATTITUDES TOWARDS THE LAW AND THE EVER CHANGING POLICE IN THEIR LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND BY ENGAGING DISAFFECTED YOUNG PEOPLE BY IMPROVING THEIR UNDERSTANDING OF THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM. | £9,923
<strong>THE NORTH WALES POLICE AND COMMUNITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1071628](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1071628)]<br>PACT supports and develops projects, particularly those in which the Police are involved, which aim to improve the quality of life by reducing crime and the fear of crime in the communities of north Wales and educating young people about the consequences of crime. Young people's projects are also supported through our Crimebeat fund which PACT manages with the High Sheriffs of Clwyd and Gwynedd. | £192,760
