# Humanitarian relief `SL102`

Humanitarian relief is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Saving of lives](SL.md) category.

1,892 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.93% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(disasters?|famines?|earthquakes?|reconstruction|(emergency|humanitarian) (relief|aid|intervention))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 663 | 0.93%
£10k - £100k | 622 | 0.88%
£100k - £250k | 149 | 0.66%
£250k - £500k | 77 | 0.70%
£500k - £1m | 72 | 1.03%
£1m - £10m | 94 | 1.02%
Over £10m | 55 | 2.45%
Total | 1,732 | 0.89%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,681 | 0.98%
oscr | 172 | 0.69%
ccni | 39 | 0.56%
Total | 1,892 | 0.93%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £339,366,903
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £339,336,903
<strong>THE BRITISH RED CROSS SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [220949](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-220949)]<br>The British Red Cross helps people in crisis, whoever and wherever they are.  We are part of a global network of volunteers, responding to natural disasters, conflicts and individual emergencies.We enable vulnerable people at home and overseas to prepare for and respond to emergencies in their own communities.  And when the crisis is over, we help people to recover and move on with their lives. | £287,100,000
<strong>ISLAMIC RELIEF WORLDWIDE</strong> [Charity number: [328158](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-328158)]<br>1. Responding to emergencies2. Caring for orphans and children in need3. Supporting education4. Providing access to health care and water5. Promoting sustainable livelihood6. Campaigning and advocacy on humanitrian issues | £275,575,689
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £271,466,000
<strong>THE ROYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT INSTITUTION</strong> [Charity number: [209603](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-209603)]<br>To save lives, promote safety and rescue service efficiency, and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters; to advance the education of the public in matters relating to sea, inland and flood water safety, and in the history and heritage of the Institution; to relieve/assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity. | £251,300,000
<strong>Royal National Lifeboat Institution</strong> [Charity number: [SC037736](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037736)]<br>The object of the Institution ('the Object') shall be to save lives at sea and on inland and flood waters. In order to achieve the Object, the powers of the Institution shall without limitation include the following:-  to promote safety and provide relief from disaster at sea and on inland and flood waters. to advance the education of the public in matters relating to safety at sea and on inland and flood waters and in the history and heritage of the  Institution. to promote the efficiency of rescue services at sea and on inland and flood waters. and to relieve and assist those who have been involved in saving lives at sea and on inland and flood waters in any capacity, and who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, infirmity or otherwise, and their dependants. | £251,300,000
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY SOCIAL WORK TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [215174](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-215174)]<br>The provision of supported accommodation for homeless people Older peoples housing and supportWork to help unemployed people back into workAnti-Human Trafficking workAddiction Support ServicesOutreach programmes and services to communitiesFamily tracing serviceFrontline assistance to emergency services personnel and people affected by disasters | £239,727,000
<strong>THE HALO TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1001813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001813)]<br>HALO1. Helps to eliminate the threat to lives and livelihoods posed by landmines and Explosive Remnants of War (ERW);2. Designs and delivers physical security & stockpile management (PSSM) of explosive ammunition for the protection of civilians;3. Reduces the potential for armed violence in fragile states;4. Responds rapidly to crises to alleviate suffering and enable humanitarian efforts. | £165,647,000
<strong>The HALO Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037870)]<br>A. The relief of poverty, sickness, suffering and distress throughout the world, in particular by the provision of hydrological, engineering and other works and medical aid with particular emphasis on the care and rehabilitation of non-combatant victims in areas where there is human conflict and the provision of assistance in the removal of debris of military hardware which may be a direct threat to non-combatants in hazerdous areas where hostilities have ceased. B. To carry out or conduct or to assist in carrying out or conducting any research into the special problems arising from injuries sustained by noncombatants in hazardous areas and into methods of alleviating suffering arising therefrom and to publish the useful results of any such research. Provided always that in discharging the foregoing objects, it is hereby declared that the Company shall discharge and carry out its objects without recourse to any political stance or viewpoint whether party political or otherwise with the sole aim of relieving such poverty, sickness to distress. | £165,647,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Minhaj-ul-Quran International</strong> [Charity number: [SC045860](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045860)]<br>5.1 The Objects of the Charity ('the Objects') are, throughout the world and more particularly in the United Kingdom ('the UK') and in Europe, specifically restricted to promoting and assisting in: 5.1.1 the advancement of the faith and religious practices of Islam. 5.1.2 the advancement of religious and general education for the public benefit including but not restricted to the study and promotion of: (i) primary. secondary. college and university education. (ii) interfaith dialogue in order to secure understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and non-Muslims. (iii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. (iv) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism.  5.1.3 the relief of poverty. sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of: (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics and floods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents and wars. (iii) the abuse and violation of human rights. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) crime including any form of terrorism. 5.1.4 the advancement of other charitable purposes for the public benefit, to provide recreational facilities and activities in the interests of social welfare with the object of improving the conditions of life for those persons in need of such facilities. and 5.1.5 the advancement of such other charitable objects for the public benefit as the Board of Trustees may from time to time think fit.  | £3,370,733
<strong>HUMANITY FIRST UK</strong> [Charity number: [1188494](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1188494)]<br>Humanity First a disaster relief and development NGO works in 55 countries.Humanity First, Charity Number 1149693 after a restructure has taken a governance and oversight role, on projects around the world and coordinating Disaster Response globally. HF UK, Charity Number 1188494 was created to take over operational responsibility, fundraising and projects in the UK and supported countries | £2,745,847
<strong>AID FOR THE CARIBBEAN - A4C</strong> [Charity number: [1217200](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1217200)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN THE CARIBBEAN REGION;1. THE RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE OF PEOPLE WHO ARE ILL OR ARE VICTIMS OF DISEASES, NATURAL DISASTERS, TROUBLE, OR CATASTROPHES, IN PARTICULAR BY THE SUPPLY OF MEDICAL SUPPLIES TO LOCAL HOSPITALS AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS,2. THE RELIEF OF PEOPLE WHO ARE IN NEED BY REASON OF BEING ELDERLY BY PROVIDING DISABILITY AND MOBILITY AIDS AND TOOLS. 3. THE RELIEF OF POVERTY IN SOCIALLY AND/OR ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES BY PROVIDING FOOD ITEMS, CLOTHES, EQUIPMENT AND ANY OTHER ITEMS THAT THE CHARITY TRUSTEES THINK FIT. 4. THE RELIEF AND ASSISTANCE OF CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE IN NEED BY PROVIDING EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL TO SCHOOLS. | 
<strong>GOAN COMMUNITY ASSOCIATION ( NORTH LONDON )</strong> [Charity number: [1082965](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082965)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE NEED OF THE COMMUNITY PARTICULARLY THE UNEMPLOYED BY ADVANCING THEIR EDUCATION AND CAREER DEVELOPMENT, BY PROVIDING THEM WITH THE SKILLS NEEDED TO ENABLE THEM TO GAIN EMPLOYMENT. PROVIDING SPORT FACILITIES, RECREATION OR LEARNING IN THE COMMUNITY CENTRE THUS MAKING A DIFFERENCE. RELIEVING THEM AND THE PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION OF THEIR HEALTH. PROVIDING HUMANITARIAN AID OVERSEAS. | £16,185
<strong>New Build Locomotive Scotland (NBLS)</strong> [Charity number: [SC049595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049595)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science through the reconstruction of a classic late Victorian Steam Locomotive of the Highland Railway Company, working with Scottish and UK based companies to ensure the continuation of traditional construction and heritage industries within Scotland. 4.2 To advance education through highlighting the work required to build a working steam engine, to improve the public?s understanding of the various techniques employed by Victorian engineers in the construction. while also showing how modern systems have improved the processes from design, to finish product. This can also be used to show the social impact of these changes. how safety and the removal on hazardous materials have improved conditions for those working on these machines.  | £1,156
<strong>SPRINGS OF LIFE INTERNATIONAL CHRISTIAN CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1088595](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1088595)]<br>Relief of PovertyOverseas Aid and Famine ReliefReligious activitiesArts and CultureAssist the community | £39,803
<strong>Guru-Nanak Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC033521](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033521)]<br>The purpose for which the Trust is established is as follows: -  2.1 The relief of poverty and       sickness in India and other       places in the under developed       countries of the world      (hereinafter called 'the area of      benefit')  2.2. To help improve the conditions        of life of persons and        communities in necessitous        circumstances in the area of        benefit including those that               would provide an improvement        in health, in food and water, in        living conditions and work.         And in furtherance thereof the         Trust shall seek: -  2.3. To give aid anywhere in        the area of benefit affected by        drought, disease or other        natural disasters.  2.4. To make grants to other        Charitable Organisations or        Societies with similar objects        operating in the area of benefit.  2.5. To receive grants from othe'        Charitable Organisations for the         carrying out of the Trust's               objects. | £41,390
<strong>EVERY HOME FOR CHRIST</strong> [Charity number: [286042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286042)]<br>Supporting humanitarian and disaster relief, as well as child sponsorship programmes and support of other Every Home for Christ activities around the world | £47,877
<strong>MADRASSA  AL- FURQAN EDUCATION CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1130556](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130556)]<br>Teaching a broad Islamic curriculum which includes Quran and Arabic language to children and adults in the local community every evening. Holding five daily congregational prayers, as well as friday and Eid sermons. Hold fundraising activities for local, national or international humanitarian crisis or disasters. | £14,475
<strong>Rotary Club of Aberdeen Deeside Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC051295](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051295)]<br>Purposes 4 The Organisation's purposes are to raise and disburse funds for the following purposes: ?The prevention or relief of poverty'. ?Assisting those that are socially isolated or those that are imminent risk of being socially isolated?. 'The advancement of education'. 'The advancement of physical health'. ?The relief and assistance of those with and those assisting with mental health problems?. 'The advancement of citizenship or community development?. ? The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science'. 'The advancement of public participation in sport'. 'The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended'. 'The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation'. 'The advancement of environmental protection or improvement'. 'The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage?. ?To support other local, National and International registered charities that assist in the education, leadership development and the welfare of children?. ?To assist charity healthcare providers on a local, national and on an international basis?. ?For national and international disaster relief?. | £35,467
