# Society `SO`

Society is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

7,794 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.84% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(peace)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 3,087 | 4.33%
£10k - £100k | 1,926 | 2.75%
£100k - £250k | 795 | 3.61%
£250k - £500k | 438 | 4.05%
£1m - £10m | 365 | 4.06%
£500k - £1m | 271 | 4.05%
Over £10m | 93 | 4.28%
Total | 6,975 | 3.63%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,663 | 1.56%
ccni | 253 | 3.52%
oscr | 4,878 | 19.70%
Total | 7,794 | 3.84%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £368,000,000
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £271,466,000
<strong>University Of Aberdeen</strong> [Charity number: [SC013683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013683)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of health.  The advance ment of civic responsibility and community development.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £269,532,000
<strong>Royal Mencap Society</strong> [Charity number: [SC041079](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041079)]<br>‘The charity's objects ('Objects') are specifically restricted to advancing the health, education and the well-being of people with a learning disability and their families and carers (the beneficiaries) by providing, procuring or facilitating care, services and facilities and to advance equality and diversity for people with a learning disability.’ | £228,027,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £151,659,000
<strong>THE HALO TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1001813](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1001813)]<br>HALO1. Helps to eliminate the threat to lives and livelihoods posed by landmines and Explosive Remnants of War (ERW);2. Designs and delivers physical security & stockpile management (PSSM) of explosive ammunition for the protection of civilians;3. Reduces the potential for armed violence in fragile states;4. Responds rapidly to crises to alleviate suffering and enable humanitarian efforts. | £147,567,000
<strong>The HALO Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037870)]<br>A. The relief of poverty, sickness, suffering and distress throughout the world, in particular by the provision of hydrological, engineering and other works and medical aid with particular emphasis on the care and rehabilitation of non-combatant victims in areas where there is human conflict and the provision of assistance in the removal of debris of military hardware which may be a direct threat to non-combatants in hazerdous areas where hostilities have ceased. B. To carry out or conduct or to assist in carrying out or conducting any research into the special problems arising from injuries sustained by noncombatants in hazardous areas and into methods of alleviating suffering arising therefrom and to publish the useful results of any such research. Provided always that in discharging the foregoing objects, it is hereby declared that the Company shall discharge and carry out its objects without recourse to any political stance or viewpoint whether party political or otherwise with the sole aim of relieving such poverty, sickness to distress. | £145,567,000
<strong>United Kingdom Committee for UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [SC043677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043677)]<br>5.1 The objects of the Charity are: 5.2 to promote human rights for children (as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments) throughout the world. 5.3 To further charitable work for children throughout the world including work through families and their communities for : 5.3.1 The relief of poverty and need. 5.3.2 The provision of education and training. 5.3.3 The promotion and protection of, and provision for , health. and 5.3.4 The protection of children who are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse.  | £135,263,000
<strong>THE UNITED KINGDOM COMMITTEE FOR UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [1072612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1072612)]<br>UNICEF is the world's leading organisation working for children. UNICEF works in partnership with families, local communities, partners and governments in over 190 countries and territories to help every child realise their full potential.UNICEF UK raises funds for UNICEF's emergency and development work around the world and advocates for lasting change for children worldwide. | £135,263,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE, U.K</strong> [Charity number: [1065972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065972)]<br>The International Rescue Committee UK is an independent British charity, established in 1997 as part of the International Rescue Committee network. The IRC provides emergency relief, protection of human rights, post-conflict reconstruction, resettlement assistance & advocacy to those uprooted or affected by violent conflict, oppression and natural disaster in countries around the world. | £116,519,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Scottish Fire & Rescue Service Retired Employees Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC038429](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038429)]<br>The aims and objectives of the Association shall be:- To advance the participation in sport by encouraging members to participate in sporting activities, which, it is proposed, the Association will arrange throughout each year To advance citizenship and community development by:  Utilising the skills and experience of members for assisting Strathclyde Fire & Rescue in promoting Community Safety through helping to raise awareness, mostly but not exclusively amongst the elderly sector of the general public, of the risks posed by fire in the home and of the preventative measures which can be taken to protect against harm from fire. Promoting and maintaining the social inclusion of members with Strathclyde Fire & Rescue. Promoting and maintaining contact amongst members thus affording former colleagues and friends the opportunity to mutually enrich each other's lives in retirement. Promoting and maintaining the best values of Strathclyde Fire & Rescue which the members enjoyed as serving employees, such as camaraderie, charity fundraising, public spiritedness and mutual assistance.  To advance education, citizenship, heritage and culture by . Raising awareness amongst the general public to acts of heroism and sacrifice by fire service personnel employed by Strathclyde Fire Board and its statutory predecessors and by personnel employed by the former Glasgow Salvage Corps Establishing and maintaining suitable dignified memorials to commemorate the bravery of such personnel Repairing , preserving and maintaining existing memorials to such personnel killed in the line of duty. | £535
<strong>Urras An Taighe Mhoir</strong> [Charity number: [SC048073](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048073)]<br>The organisation's purposes are:  4.1.  Promote rural regeneration through the redevelopment of the former station of light-house keepers to the Flannan Isles, preserving a community asset and providing sustainable facilities which will be of social and economic benefit to the geographic community with postcodes. HS2 9EA, HS2 9ED, HS2 9EF, HS2 9DS, HS2 9DY, HS2 9EJ, HS2 9DX, HS2 9DZ, HS2 9DW, HS2 9DR.    4.2.  Advance public education, knowledge and appreciation of the communities cultural and historical links to the Flannan Isles, ensuring an enduring legacy and celebration of this heritage.  4.3.    Advance community development and citizenship through the use of an An Taigh Mhòr as a centre for voluntary groups within our community, ensuring a sustainable future for the proposed facilities working with residents, local agencies, voluntary and other organisations. | £74,443
<strong>ALFURQAN ACADEMY</strong> [Charity number: [1182797](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182797)]<br>Our charity supports mainstream education through provision of a homework club andGCSE prep workshops. However, our supplementary school teach Islamic religion, celebrate our cultureand activities to support mainstream education but equally promote good citizenship and good health forall. Also we run workshop and projects that help the young people and their families to do well in education. | £412,762
<strong>MANEKPORE TAKOLI MUSLIM WELFARE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1199172](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199172)]<br>THE MAIN PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES OF THE CIO ARE:2.1.TO RELIEVE FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, DISTRESS AND SUFFERING AMONG POOR PEOPLE, ORPHANS, WIDOWS AND OTHER PEOPLE IN NEED BY MEANS OF, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, MAKING GRANTS FOR PROVIDING OR PAYING FOR ITEMS, EQUIPMENT, SERVICES AND FACILITIES, INCLUDING THE PROVISION OF FOOD, CLOTHING, AND COSTS FOR MEDICAL TREATMENT OR MEDICINES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC.2.2.TO ADVANCE THE RELIGION OF ISLAM BY MEANS, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, THE PROVISION OR THE ASSISTANCE IN THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES OF ISLAMIC EDUCATION IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TEACHINGS OF QURAN AND THE SUNNAH OF THE PROPHET (PEACE BE UPON HIM) AS INTERPRETED BY THE SUNNI HANAFI DEOBANDI SCHOOL OF THOUGHT. | 
<strong>Oxton War Memorial Hall</strong> [Charity number: [SC038442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038442)]<br>The purpose of Oxton War Memorial Hall is to benefit the entire community through the provision of recreational facilities and/or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions or life of the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. This in turn will enable: 1) the advancement of education, arts, heritage, culture and science, 2) the progression of citizenship, community development, civic responsibility and volunteering, and 3) the promotion of equality, diversity and social inclusion. | £128,450
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Forth Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC020574](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC020574)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £2,337
<strong>Bryson Corbett Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC007033](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007033)]<br>1. The prevention and relief of poverty 2. The advancement of education 3. The advancement of religion 4. The advancement of health 5. The advancement of civic responsibility or community development 6. The advancement of arts, heritage, culture, or science 7. The advancement of public participation in sport 8. The promotion of human rights, conflict resolution and reconciliation 9. The advancement of environmental protection and improvement 10. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage 11. The promotion of animal welfare 12. Any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £24,614
<strong>Thistledown Arts</strong> [Charity number: [SC052683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052683)]<br>6. The company's objects are to: 6.1. Advance the arts, heritage and culture and, in particular, through: 6.1.1.  the development of new theatrical works with a view to supporting emerging talent in the performing arts. 6.1.2. supporting emerging talent in the performing arts. 6.1.3. supporting the work of Scottish playwrights and other theatre artists. 6.1.4. supporting cross-cultural/multilingual theatrical work to enrich the global theatre community, bringing Scottish theatre to the world, and global theatre to Scotland. 6.1.5. creating accessible productions of the classics of the theatrical canon that reach and connect with a broader audience. and 6.2. To promote, establish, operate and/or support other projects and programmes which further similar charitable purposes. | £18,387
<strong>ANTI-TRAFFICKING AND LABOUR EXPLOITATION UNIT (ATLEU) LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1151675](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1151675)]<br>ATLEU provides legal representation to victims of trafficking, labour exploitation and other human rights abuses; conducts strategic litigation and policy and campaigning work to bring about change in law and policy; and works to build capacity in legal and support organisation through the provision of training, resources and second tier advice.   | £1,057,994
<strong>Trustees For The Scourie Public Hall Committee</strong> [Charity number: [SC004614](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC004614)]<br>The advancement of education. The advancement of religion. The advancement of health. The advancement of civic responsibility or community development. The advancement of, arts, heritage, culture, or science. The advancement of public participation in sport. | 
