# Human rights `SO105`

Human rights is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

934 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.46% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((human|civil|constitutional|civic|natural|unalienable|god[ -]given) rights?|civil liberties|freedom of (speech|religion|congregation)|authoritarianism)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 268 | 0.37%
£10k - £100k | 210 | 0.30%
£100k - £250k | 101 | 0.47%
£250k - £500k | 97 | 0.94%
£1m - £10m | 91 | 1.04%
£500k - £1m | 71 | 1.10%
Over £10m | 30 | 1.40%
Total | 868 | 0.45%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 451 | 0.26%
oscr | 435 | 1.77%
ccni | 48 | 0.67%
Total | 934 | 0.46%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £368,000,000
<strong>United Kingdom Committee for UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [SC043677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043677)]<br>5.1 The objects of the Charity are: 5.2 to promote human rights for children (as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments) throughout the world. 5.3 To further charitable work for children throughout the world including work through families and their communities for : 5.3.1 The relief of poverty and need. 5.3.2 The provision of education and training. 5.3.3 The promotion and protection of, and provision for , health. and 5.3.4 The protection of children who are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse.  | £160,850,000
<strong>INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE, U.K</strong> [Charity number: [1065972](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1065972)]<br>The International Rescue Committee UK is an independent British charity, established in 1997 as part of the International Rescue Committee network. The IRC provides emergency relief, protection of human rights, post-conflict reconstruction, resettlement assistance & advocacy to those uprooted or affected by violent conflict, oppression and natural disaster in countries around the world. | £122,092,000
<strong>Mercy Corps Europe</strong> [Charity number: [SC030289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030289)]<br>The objects of the Company are:- (a) the relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of health. (c) the advancement of community development. (d) the saving of lives. (e) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and (f) the advancement of environmental protection | £115,020,028
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>Enable Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC009024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009024)]<br>. The Company’s objects are to primarily promote the relief of those in need and the welfare of children and adults who have a learning disability including the meeting of their needs, and the development of their capabilities. to enable and encourage people who have a learning disability to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives. and secondly to work with individuals, including those who have a learning disability, their families, carers, including older carers, and other organisations to achieve these aims. In furtherance thereof, but not otherwise, the Company shall seek:  The promotion of equality and diversity and the promotion and advancement of human rights, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments, through campaigning on issues affecting people across Scotland who have learning disabilities, their families and carers and to promote and support local campaigns concerning same.  The advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting mutual help, information and support amongst people who have learning disabilities, their relatives and friends. To further advance health through the commissioning and facilitation of research, and implementation of findings in practice.  The advancement of citizenship or community development through promoting cooperation and understanding between people who have learning disabilities and their relatives, and those providing services to them. To further advance citizenship and community development by creating, facilitating and supporting forums for developing networks, accessing employment opportunities, peer support and information sharing.  The relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting, providing and encouraging the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people who have a disability, their families and carers.  The advancement of education through encouraging research into the causes and management of learning disabilities and to disseminate the useful results of such research.  The foregoing objects shall be construed subject to the proviso that the objects of the Company are charitable. | £62,938,503
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £60,980,930
<strong>THE SIGRID RAUSING TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1194828](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194828)]<br>The Trust gives grants to support work on human rights and rule of law, open societies, and the environment. We support groups in a number of focus regions and countries internationally. We also make occasional gifts via our Chairs Gifts and Trustees Gifts programmes. | £52,555,658
<strong>Postcode Justice Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043779)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:  3.1 the advancement of education.  3.2 the advancement of health.  3.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.5 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.6 the promotion of equality and diversity.  | £46,867,366
<strong>Postcode Support Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045861)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The advancement of education.  3.2 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.3 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.4 The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.5 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science. and  3.6 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £46,811,573


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BELARUS FREE THEATRE</strong> [Charity number: [1147372](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147372)]<br>Belarus Free Theatre (BFT) is a UK-based international award-winning theatre company founded on the principles of freedom of speech and artistic expression.  The company works with both a permanent ensemble of actors based in Belarus and an ensemble made up of UK and international actors.  Working across borders, BFT creates, advocates internationally for human rights, and educates. | £1,186,478
<strong>World Care Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC046662](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046662)]<br>4	The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1	to prevent and relieve poverty by providing humanitarian aid worldwide to those in need of help due to war, oppression, crisis, natural disaster or any other difficult circumstances impacting their lives. 4.2	the advancement of education through: - 4.2.1	the delivery of educational and personal development projects, including but not exclusively, upskilling and mentoring. 4.2.2	the provision or the assistance in the provision of a School for general and cultural education. 4.2.3	raising awareness of and advance the education of the public which encourage and promote good citizenship, human rights, philanthropy and giving charity within the community.  4.3	the relief of need through the provision of support and services as needed for the benefit of those in need locally or abroad due to poverty, health issues, age and other areas of personal needs impacting on overall health. 4.4	to advance citizenship & community development, in order to raise awareness of humanitarian issues, encourage volunteering activities, donations and provide a link between those who are able and wish to help fellow human beings in need.  | £3,746,236
<strong>Women's Integration Network SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC052085](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052085)]<br>The organisations purposes are the prevention or relief of poverty, the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation and the promotion of equality and diversity for women by/through the following: 1.1  Raising awareness of poverty and challenging the barriers which keep women in poverty, particularly those in or have been in the asylum process. To work together in close liaison with other agencies in highlighting the issues faced by the women we serve, ultimately seeking to bring about social change. Additionally, to educate women on accessing available support in times of crisis. To achieve these goals, we seek through empowerment, education, and community action to effectively reduce the barriers which sustain poverty in populations. 1.2  Promoting equality and diversity within a supportive and informative environment, which values multiculturalism. To educate women in ways to challenge inequality and collectively support them through the barriers they face. To provide access to training and development opportunities, giving women the tools and emotional strength to challenge prejudice and inequality. Furthermore, our purpose is to unite women in the celebration of diverse cultures, where experiences can be shared and learned from. 1.3  Increasing awareness of members' rights through educational programmes, and promoting access to women?s rights organisations. To provide women with a platform to have their voices heard and valued. To acknowledge women's experience of trauma or prejudice throughout their asylum process journey. To support and encourage women to play an active role in their communities. 1.4  Reducing isolation and promote well-being, through the provision of an environment where women can meet together and develop relationships. To provide access to activities promoting health and well-being, including physical and financial support. The organisation holds the health and wellbeing of its members as paramount and will signpost to appropriate agencies, as necessary. | £29,455
<strong>Buckhaven and Methil Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042211](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042211)]<br>(a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) the advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. U) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement. (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (o) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £279
<strong>Western Isles Women's Aid SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC048724](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048724)]<br>4. The organisation's purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of human rights 4.2 Conflict resolution or reconciliation 4.3 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage 4.4 Such other similar charitable purposes as the Trustees shall think fit  | £252,207
<strong>Crail Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042150)]<br>We direct the Trustees to hold such sums of money, stocks and shares and other assets as may in the future from time to time be paid or conveyed to the Trustees by us or other persons and the investments and property from time to time representing the same (all hereinafter referred to as 'the Trust Fund') as capital and to disburse from the Revenue income generated therefrom grants and donations to the beneficiaries as described in the Trust Conditions for the following purposes (hereinafter 'the Purposes'):  (a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) the advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement: (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (o) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £3,735
<strong>BHAKT BHAKTI AUR BHAGWAN ASHRAM UK</strong> [Charity number: [1139867](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1139867)]<br>Principal activity is that of propagating hinduism and working towards the social, cultural, spiritual and educational uplift of one and all. To promote human rights including children. To construct recreational centres for youth and children and setting up centres for adults needing care in third world countries including but not limited to India,Mauritius and African Countries. | £122,907
<strong>Making Rights Real</strong> [Charity number: [SC050342](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050342)]<br>4 The organisation's purposes are to work independently and in collaboration with others for: 4.1 The advancement of human rights citizenship or community development, by all or any of the following means: 4.1.1 Encouraging and supporting collective community action on human rights concerns including through media and campaigning work. 4.1.2 Supporting the networking of community based human rights defenders. 4.1.3 Providing information, advice, training or development support for rights holders and communities in furtherance of above purposes. 4.2 The advancement and promotion of human rights (as set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and subsequent United Nations treaties  and declarations) by all or any of the following means: 4.2.1 With communities monitoring human rights concerns at the grassroots. obtaining redress for the victims of human rights issues including through media and campaigning. supporting people to have their rights met in practice. research into human rights issues. 4.2.2 Educating the public about human rights and promoting public support for human rights. providing technical advice to government and others on human rights matters. contributing to the sound administration of human rights law. 4.2.3 Commenting on  legislation impacting on human rights. raising awareness and support for human rights.  4.2.4 Promoting respect for human rights among individuals, corporations. international advocacy of human rights and eliminating infringements of human rights. 4.2.5 Provide or support the provision of services with communities and rights holders in furtherance of above purposes. | £128,147
<strong>Leslie Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042170](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042170)]<br>(a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development. (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. U) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement: (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (0) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes | £104
<strong>STAKEHOLDER DEMOCRACY NETWORK</strong> [Charity number: [1148143](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1148143)]<br>We support the efforts of those affected by extractive industries & weak governance through rights based community empowerment. We strive to protect human rights & demand responsive governance. Our pillars of research & advocacy help facilitate communities & civil society to negotiate with other stakeholders, to get a better deal from the investments & operations that affect their lives | £875,305
