# Conflict resolution `SO102`

Conflict resolution is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

349 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.17% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(conflicts? (resolution|reconciliation))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 101 | 0.14%
£10k - £100k | 98 | 0.14%
£100k - £250k | 41 | 0.19%
£250k - £500k | 24 | 0.24%
£500k - £1m | 16 | 0.25%
£1m - £10m | 23 | 0.27%
Over £10m | 17 | 0.81%
Total | 320 | 0.17%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 68 | 0.04%
ccni | 20 | 0.28%
oscr | 261 | 1.06%
Total | 349 | 0.17%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Islamic Relief Worldwide</strong> [Charity number: [SC042020](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042020)]<br>‘1.1 The Objects of the Charity are, as a practical manifestation and application of the humanitarian values inspired and guided by the Islamic faith, to promote for the public benefit: 1.1.1 the alleviation of human suffering for those who are the victims of war or natural disaster, trouble, inequalities, injustices or catastrophe and the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship by: a. providing humanitarian assistance and other means of saving lives. b. raising awareness and advocating for those in need. c. advancing conflict resolution and reconciliation. d. promoting religious and human harmony.  1.1.2 To promote sustainable development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs for the benefit of the public by:-  a.	the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of natural resources.  b.	the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life in socially and economically disadvantaged communities.  c.	the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.  1.1.3	to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world.  1.1.4	to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. and  1.1.5	the advancement of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined and agreed by the Trustees.’  | £270,419,000
<strong>Mercy Corps Europe</strong> [Charity number: [SC030289](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030289)]<br>The objects of the Company are:- (a) the relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of health. (c) the advancement of community development. (d) the saving of lives. (e) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and (f) the advancement of environmental protection | £115,020,028
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>Postcode Justice Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043779)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:  3.1 the advancement of education.  3.2 the advancement of health.  3.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.5 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.6 the promotion of equality and diversity.  | £46,867,366
<strong>Postcode Support Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045861)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The advancement of education.  3.2 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.3 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.4 The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.5 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science. and  3.6 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £46,811,573
<strong>Postcode International Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044835](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044835)]<br>3 	The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2	The advancement of education.  3.3	The advancement of health.  3.4	The saving of lives.  3.5	The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity. and  3.6	The advancement of environmental protection and improvement.  | £44,995,011
<strong>Postcode Education Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045922)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The advancement of education.  3.2	The advancement of health.  3.3	The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4	The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity.    | £44,967,856
<strong>The Snooks Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052180)]<br>5.3 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and  (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 5.3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 5.3.2 The advancement of education. 5.3.3 The advancement of religion. 5.3.4 The advancement of health (including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering). 5.3.5 The saving of lives. 5.3.6 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 5.3.7 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 5.3.8 The advancement of public participation in sport (and 'sport' means sport which involves physical skill and exertion). 5.3.9 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are :- 5.3.9.1 primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. or 5.3.9.2 available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 5.3.10 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.3.11 The promotion of religious or racial harmony. 5.3.12 The promotion of equality and diversity. 5.3.13 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 5.3.14 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). 5.3.15 The advancement of animal welfare. 5.3.16 The relief of unemployment. 5.3.17 The advancement of philosophical belief. 5.3.18 The promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces. | £31,371,100
<strong>Postcode Innovation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC046499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046499)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2 The advancement of education.  3.3 The advancement of health.  3.4 The saving of lives.  3.5 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.6 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.7 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement. and  3.8 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability,  financial hardship or other disadvantage  | £30,541,425
<strong>Postcode Global Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044038](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044038)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2 The advancement of education.  3.3 The advancement of health.  3.4 The saving of lives.  3.5 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.6 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.7 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement. and  3.8 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability,  financial hardship or other disadvantage.    | £29,967,205


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>United Nations Association Edinburgh</strong> [Charity number: [SC045157](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045157)]<br>The organisation's charitable purposes are: 1. the prevention or the relief of poverty. 2. the advancement of education. 3. the advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering , the voluntary sector or the effectiveness of the efficiency of charities). 4. the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.  the promotion of religious harmony. 6. the promotion of equality and diversity. and 7. the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health , disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | 
<strong>Art27 Scotland SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC053552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053552)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are: a) The advancement of arts, heritage, and culture  b) The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation c) The promotion of equality, diversity and inclusion  d) The advancement of citizenship or community development e) The advancement of education | 
<strong>Kind-Lead Minds</strong> [Charity number: [SC053473](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053473)]<br>2 The association's purposes are (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation, and (d) the advancement of health. pertaining to mental health by promoting mental and moral well-being, ethical conduct and compliance with the law, within the public and private sectors, for adults in North Lanarkshire. | 
<strong>The Renaissance Club Charitable Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC051291](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051291)]<br>The purpose of the SCIO is to support groups and organisations and/or individuals in East Lothian and elsewhere who are considered to be worthy recipients of funding being distributed on a purely charitable basis for one or more of the following charitable causes:- (a) the prevention or relief of poverty, (b) the advancement of education, (c) the advancement of religion, (d) the advancement of health, (e) the saving of lives, (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development, (g) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, (h) the advancement of public participation in sport, (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation, (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony, (l) the promotion of equality and diversity, (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement, (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, (o) the advancement of animal welfare, (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £323,945
<strong>The Learning to Understand Needs and Abilities Project</strong> [Charity number: [SC050148](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050148)]<br>4.5 In accordance with the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 section 7(2) the charitable purposes of the LUNA Project are as follows: 4.5.1 (b) the advancement of education 4.5.2 (j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation 4.5.3 (l) the promotion of equality and diversity 4.5.4 (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage | £5,687
<strong>THE ARPAD & ALENA ROSNER FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1162848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1162848)]<br>In the first few years of the charity, the trustees expect to be making grants in fields such as: a) education b) citizenship and community development c) human rights, conflict resolution and reconciliationThe Foundation will work with other appropriate charities in the UK.The Foundation does not consider any unsolicited applications for grants.  | £21,325
<strong>Antrim Community Church</strong> [Charity number: [NI105548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105548)]<br>The advancement of religion. The advancement of citizenship or community development. The relief of this in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. The prevention or relief of poverty. The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality and diversity. HOW? Religious activities, welfare/benevolent, Advice/Advocacy/information, counselling/support, relief of poverty, grant making, human rights/equality, youth development, playgroup/after schools, overseas aid/famine relief, community development. WHO? Pre-school (0-5 years old), older people, parents, overseas/developing countries, youth (14-25 years old), unemployed/low income, volunteers, women, voluntary and community sectors. | £2,031
<strong>The Peden Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC051730](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051730)]<br>The Trustees shall have power in their discretion at any time or times to hold any property and to pay or apply the whole or any part or parts of the income or capital of the Trust Fund for the following charitable purposes:-  (1) The prevention or relief of poverty. (2) The advancement of education. (3) The advancement of health. (4) The saving of lives. (5) The advancement of citizenship or community development. (6) The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (7) The advancement of public participation in sport. (8) The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. (9) The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (10) The promotion of equality and diversity. (11) The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. and (12) The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £10
<strong>Cowie Community Enterprises Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC018254](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC018254)]<br>3.	Throughout this memorandum of association and the company's articles of association, 'charitable' means charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and also in relation to the application of Part 11 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as read with Schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and any statute or statutory provision which amends, extends, consolidates or replaces the same. The company's objects are: -  (a)	To relieve poverty principally among the residents of Cowie ('the Operating Area') through 1  (i)	the promotion of companies whose activities are directed towards the provision of paid employment to poor residents of the Operating Area or towards relief from need among poor residents of the Operating Area, the acquisition and holding of shares, stocks, debentures and other interests in companies whose activities are so directed and the provision of managerial, supervisory and consultancy services to or in respect of such companies  (ii)	the provision of advice and assistance with regard to the establishment and operation of enterprises whose activities are directed towards the aims referred to in sub-paragraph (i)  (iii)	the promotion and implementation of schemes of community benefit of a charitable nature within the Operating Area  (iv)	the provision of training opportunities and  (v)	the operation of workspace projects.  (a.1)	To undertake schemes or projects, or support others undertaking  such   schemes or projects, which:  (i)	advance education for those resident in, or who come from, the Operating Area. or  (ii)	advance health, citizenship or community development, or public participation in sport primarily within the Operating Area. or  (iii)	provide recreational facilities or organise recreational activities within the Operating Area with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom those are primarily intended. or  (iv)	provide relief to those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage who are resident in, or who come from, the Operating Area. 2         (a.2)     To give grants, donations, gifts or loans, to individuals or organisations as the directors shall from time to time in their absolute discretion think fit, where doing so       would further one or more of the following purposes   (primarily, but not exclusively, in the Operating Area):   (i)	the prevention or relief of poverty, (ii)	the advancement of education, (iii)	the advancement of religion, (iv)	the advancement of health, (v)	the saving of lives, (vi)	the advancement of citizenship or community development, (vii)	the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science, (viii)	the advancement of public participation in sport, (ix)	the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, (x)	the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation, (xi)	the promotion of religious or racial harmony, (xii)	the promotion of equality and diversity, (xiii)	the advancement of environmental protection or improvement, (xiv)	the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, or (xv)	the advancement  of animal welfare.   (b)To carry on any other activity which may be advantageously carried on in connection with any of the objects of the company.   | £839,147
<strong>LAMBETH MEDIATION SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1120238](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120238)]<br>Mediation and Conflict Resolution | £36,979
