# Democracy `SO103`

Democracy is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

70 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.03% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(democrac(tic|y)|political engagement)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 19 | 0.03%
£10k - £100k | 16 | 0.02%
£100k - £250k | 7 | 0.03%
£250k - £500k | 5 | 0.05%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 12 | 0.14%
Over £10m | 0 | 0.00%
Total | 63 | 0.03%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 43 | 0.03%
oscr | 18 | 0.07%
ccni | 9 | 0.12%
Total | 70 | 0.03%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NEW ISRAEL FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1060081](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060081)]<br>NEW ISRAEL FUND IS THE LEADING ORGANISATION STRENGTHENING DEMOCRACY AND EQUALITY IN ISRAEL. NIF HELPS DEVELOP ISRAEL'S CIVIL SOCIETY ON ISSUES INCLUDING SHARED SOCIETY, SOCIAL JUSTICE, MINORITY RIGHTS AND HUMAN RIGHTS. THIS IS ACHIEVED THROUGH GRANT-MAKING, ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY-BUILDING, AND DELIVERING PROJECTS. IN THE UK WE RUN EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES TO EDUCATE THE COMMUNITY ON THESE ISSUES. | £4,087,780
<strong>mySociety</strong> [Charity number: [1076346](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076346)]<br>mySociety helps people be active citizens with technology, research and data that individuals, journalists, and civil society can use, openly and for free. We work across three interlinked practice areas: Community, Democracy and Transparency - each underpinned by research, sector building and appropriate commercial work. | £3,092,990
<strong>COMMONWEALTH PARLIAMENTARY ASSOCIATION (UNITED KINGDOM BRANCH)</strong> [Charity number: [1095118](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095118)]<br>To work for the advancement of parliamentary democracy throughout the Commonwealth. | £2,907,157
<strong>CIVIC FUTURE</strong> [Charity number: [1204528](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204528)]<br>Civic Future has the aim of strengthening civic society and democracy through improving the quality of public leadership. Our programme identifies and supports talented individuals committed to liberal ideas to enter public life, and trains and develops them to be effective in a variety of roles. | £2,564,861
<strong>LOCAL INFORMATION UNIT LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1113495](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1113495)]<br>The LGIU provides a range of services including:* A policy briefing service on topics relevant to local democracy* A daily news service* Publications on local government* Events and seminars* Learning and development activities* Research and advice | £1,956,826
<strong>THE INVOLVE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1130568](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130568)]<br>Since Involve was founded in 2003 we have worked closely with public organisations at a local, national and international level to transform how they engage with citizens. Our work seeks to create new innovations, new institutions and new norms of democracy. We do this by developing world-class participatory and deliberative processes, and by setting the agenda and building coalitions. | £1,936,281
<strong>THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF LABOUR HISTORY</strong> [Charity number: [295260](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-295260)]<br>The People's History Museum is the national museum of democracy.  We are the only museum dedicated to telling the story of the development of democracy in Britain.  We engage, inspire and inform all audiences by showing that 'there have always been ideas worth fighting for'. | £1,830,599
<strong>The Anne Frank Trust UK Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC040488](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040488)]<br>The Objects for which the company is established are to advance public education in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the principles of religious and racial tolerance and of democracy as illustrated by the life and diary of Anne Frank. | £1,810,739
<strong>OPPORTUNITY GREEN</strong> [Charity number: [1199413](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199413)]<br>Opportunity Green is an NGO working to unlock the opportunities from tackling climate change using law, economics and policy. Opportunity Green helps countries, civil society and business access the solutions that reduce emissions and bring enormous opportunities for economic development, improved health and increased democracy. | £1,720,068
<strong>Northern Ireland Youth Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI102677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102677)]<br>Our work is diverse and wide ranging and includes youth development projects; intervention work; street based youth work; training and capacity building; community change; community relations; participative democracy and social justice work. We operate throughout NI and are a 'Regional Voluntary Youth Organisation' (RVYO). Our job is to promote the voice of young people in the decision making process and much of our work focuses on effecting change at a policy level. Young people benefit directly from a range of programmes; educational and capacity building courses; interventions; one to one work; mentoring; personal development work; community and citizenship projects; community development work; community relations work; etc. These programmes have a wider benefit to society and community in that all of the work young people engage in is 'for the greater good' with indirect benefits for family; peers and communities. Young people through engaging with the youth forum, will have the opportunity to overcome barriers to learning; be encouraged and supported to have a say in the issues that are most important to them and develop self awareness and inner strength to achieve in all areas of their lives. We offer a range of programmes from Youth Democracy projects; detached youth work; outreach work; accredited and non accredited training; cross community and cross border work; international work; programmes for NEET and 'at risk' young people. We work closely with local authorities and the legislative assembly. | £1,166,217


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Time Banks UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC039370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039370)]<br>1) To educate and inform individuals about the theory and practice of time banking.  2) to promote the use of time banks throughout the United Kingdom and, in particular, act as an umbrella organisation for time banks. and  3) to educate and inform individuals co-production so as to improve quality of life and encourage participatory democracy | £248,326
<strong>Indian Scottish Cultural Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC053486](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053486)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of the Art, Heritage and Culture through utilising Intangible Cultural Heritage (ICH) as a means to progressing active citizenship and facilitating equal participation for the diverse Indian communities in cultural heritage and art programs: via seeking to influence relevant policies, representation and democratic participation for all at relevant forums and committees, proactively facilitating and managing an Indian multicultural community ‘Hub’, staging cultural exhibitions, cultural, arts programs and clubs, facilitating multicultural events and activities, delivering workshops aiming at enhancing public awareness of and participation in cultural heritage programs with a focus on raising awareness about the history and traditions of the diverse Indian communities’ intangible cultural heritage and facilitating equal participation for all.   4.2 The advancement of citizenship and community cohesion through the development and delivery of democratic participation programs, advancing cultural diversity at various levels, promoting and enhancing the cultural rights of citizens, the encouragement of voluntary activities and increasing the involvement of individuals, groups and communities in cultural and art activities through offering art and culture educational activities, training opportunities, cultural and art clubs as well as community development initiatives, facilitating meaningful engagement and equal participation of the diverse communities in art and culture programs  4.3 The promotion of equality through celebrating diversity, cultural heritage and community cohesion via utilising participative democracy programs, seeking to inform and influence responsively relevant policies and representation at relevant equality forums and committees as well as delivering cultural, art and community development initiatives aiming at challenging hate crime and enhancing participative democracy and inclusion as well as capacity development support as a means of tackling exclusion and promoting community spirit, integration and community spirit. | 
<strong>Afghan Women's Association of Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC053545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053545)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 The advancement of citizenship and community cohesion through the development and delivery of democratic participation programs, advancing cultural diversity at various levels, promoting and enhancing the cultural rights of citizens, the encouragement of voluntary activities and increasing the involvement of individuals and communities in cultural and art activities through offering art and culture educational activities, training opportunities, cultural and art clubs as well as community development initiatives, facilitating meaningful engagement and equal participation of the diverse communities in art and culture programs.   4.2 The advancement of health & wellbeing of Afghan women including mental and physical health. Addressing issues affecting new arrivals and their families in health and wellbeing. through health education and preventative initiatives, providing health and wellbeing activities.   4.3 To advance education through offering educational activities, ESOL classes and training opportunities as well as empowering parental engagement and participation in education and in progressing participative democracy for Afghan women | 
<strong>Northern Ireland Youth Forum</strong> [Charity number: [NI102677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102677)]<br>Our work is diverse and wide ranging and includes youth development projects; intervention work; street based youth work; training and capacity building; community change; community relations; participative democracy and social justice work. We operate throughout NI and are a 'Regional Voluntary Youth Organisation' (RVYO). Our job is to promote the voice of young people in the decision making process and much of our work focuses on effecting change at a policy level. Young people benefit directly from a range of programmes; educational and capacity building courses; interventions; one to one work; mentoring; personal development work; community and citizenship projects; community development work; community relations work; etc. These programmes have a wider benefit to society and community in that all of the work young people engage in is 'for the greater good' with indirect benefits for family; peers and communities. Young people through engaging with the youth forum, will have the opportunity to overcome barriers to learning; be encouraged and supported to have a say in the issues that are most important to them and develop self awareness and inner strength to achieve in all areas of their lives. We offer a range of programmes from Youth Democracy projects; detached youth work; outreach work; accredited and non accredited training; cross community and cross border work; international work; programmes for NEET and 'at risk' young people. We work closely with local authorities and the legislative assembly. | £1,166,217
<strong>Jambo! Radio [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC053499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC053499)]<br>(a) the advancement of education. by providing training in audiovisual and broadcast technologies operations using a combination of informal, work-based, vocational, and assessments-based methods, for people of African and Caribbean heritage in Scotland who already face multiple barriers in media education, employment, and access to the creative sector. or have fallen out of the mainstream system.  (b) the advancement of citizenship or community development by promotion of civic responsibility through our multilingual broadcast radio programmes in promoting democracy and equality, and engagement with social and political processes, promote good citizenship.  Advance community development: develop and operate a multilingual community local broadcast media/radio stations and community websites, supporting people and community groups to identify and articulate their needs, promotion of volunteering to support community capacity, resilience and cohesion, and as a pathway to employment or further training.  (c) the promotion of equality and diversity through awareness-raising events and programmes, promoting inclusiveness within society and raising awareness of discrimination against people of ethnic minorities.  (d) the advancement of the arts, heritage, and culture  Advancement of the arts: by training aspiring artists on content through our masterclasses in music creation and production, media content such as drama, storytelling harnesses the creative arts skills of aspiring artists in Scotland.  Advancement of the heritage: through heritage training and legacy projects, including trips to heritage sites and celebrating historic traditions.   Advancement of culture: through our radio programming and content available to the public, the radio station is a defining feature or characteristics of people of African and Caribbean heritage in Scotland, which support the promotion of history, language and literature, arts, music, singing and dance, food and fashion. Core to our activities is the preservation, commemorate, and celebrate these cultural features for public benefit. | 
<strong>MUSTAQBILL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1106573](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1106573)]<br>Our work is better served by working to build community cohesion by bringing the community together in formal and informal gathereings.Grassroot work with young people about topics covered in training such as social inclusion, community cohesion, equality, diversity and democracy.Mustaqbill Foundation has produced a support system for parents that need support in tackling the views of extremism. | £10,000
<strong>The VSB Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [NI102757](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102757)]<br>We research, evaluate and facilitate participation that enables individuals to become involved in voluntary activity. Pilot and/ or support initiatives that enable individuals to become involved in the community at local, regional and international level. We undertake research and support the development of innovative citizenship initiatives which promote participatory democracy. We support and enable the collaboration or merger of organisations of common or similar objectives working within the community, in order to increase efficiency and reduce duplication and create a stronger voice for their beneficiaries. | £117,104
<strong>THE CONSTITUTIONAL AND DEMOCRATIC RESEARCH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1194293](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194293)]<br>Provides advocacy, advice, information and/or research to advance the education of the public in the subject of constitutions and democracy. | £18,975
<strong>GASLIGHT MEDIA TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [NI100898](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100898)]<br>Between 2003 and 2006 Gaslight Media Trust developed a multimedia Workshop Education Programme called Epilogues, which explores the underlying causes of the conflict in and about ‘Northern Ireland’. Since that time and continuing today the programme is delivered to adults in educational institutions and community based organisations. Its overall aim is to give citizens both an overview of, and an insight into, the underlying causes of the conflict, better equipping them to play an active role in peace building and so helping to foster a culture of Justice and Human Rights for all. The project has seven objectives within the Open College Network national system of accreditation. These are: 1. To promote an understanding of participative democracy to better able victims and survivors to deal with the past in their own terms 2. To develop a sense of active citizenship based on human rights and justice for all 3. To underscore the view of democracy as a conflict resolving process 4. To build awareness and understanding of the differences within and between the various perspectives that have been in conflict 5. To underscore the contested nature of History and its role in shaping perception 6. To explore the circumstances that fractured civil society to the point where citizens adopted a ‘war’ as opposed to a ‘peace’ orientation to resolving conflict 7. To manage and facilitate collective processes that enable public acknowledgment in the furtherance of broadening and deepening societal understanding of conflict and transforming fractured relationships Drawing on the experience of their programme Epilogues, Gaslight Media Trust have, since 2012, been in the process of developing a new multimedia workshop based education programme called JustUs. The estimated completion date for the development of the programme will be late 2015. This programme, JustUs, is a workshop based citizenship educational programme designed for young people, aged 14 to 18. | £35,974
<strong>HANSARD SOCIETY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1091364](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091364)]<br>We are an independent, non-partisan political research and education society working in the UK and around the world to promote democracy and strengthen parliaments. | £273,415
