# Equality and diversity `SO104`

Equality and diversity is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

1,480 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.73% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(equality and diversity|(sexual|racial|gender|sex) (diversity|equality|equal|harmony)|hate crimes?|diverse communities|equal access)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 404 | 0.57%
£10k - £100k | 395 | 0.56%
£100k - £250k | 170 | 0.77%
£250k - £500k | 111 | 1.03%
£1m - £10m | 94 | 1.04%
£500k - £1m | 67 | 1.00%
Over £10m | 22 | 1.01%
Total | 1,263 | 0.66%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 541 | 0.32%
ccni | 40 | 0.56%
oscr | 899 | 3.63%
Total | 1,480 | 0.73%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Enable Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC009024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009024)]<br>. The Company’s objects are to primarily promote the relief of those in need and the welfare of children and adults who have a learning disability including the meeting of their needs, and the development of their capabilities. to enable and encourage people who have a learning disability to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives. and secondly to work with individuals, including those who have a learning disability, their families, carers, including older carers, and other organisations to achieve these aims. In furtherance thereof, but not otherwise, the Company shall seek:  The promotion of equality and diversity and the promotion and advancement of human rights, as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments, through campaigning on issues affecting people across Scotland who have learning disabilities, their families and carers and to promote and support local campaigns concerning same.  The advancement of health and the relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting mutual help, information and support amongst people who have learning disabilities, their relatives and friends. To further advance health through the commissioning and facilitation of research, and implementation of findings in practice.  The advancement of citizenship or community development through promoting cooperation and understanding between people who have learning disabilities and their relatives, and those providing services to them. To further advance citizenship and community development by creating, facilitating and supporting forums for developing networks, accessing employment opportunities, peer support and information sharing.  The relief of those in need by reason of disability through promoting, providing and encouraging the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people who have a disability, their families and carers.  The advancement of education through encouraging research into the causes and management of learning disabilities and to disseminate the useful results of such research.  The foregoing objects shall be construed subject to the proviso that the objects of the Company are charitable. | £62,938,503
<strong>Postcode International Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044835](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044835)]<br>3 	The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2	The advancement of education.  3.3	The advancement of health.  3.4	The saving of lives.  3.5	The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity. and  3.6	The advancement of environmental protection and improvement.  | £49,378,521
<strong>Postcode Support Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045861)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The advancement of education.  3.2 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.3 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.4 The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.5 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science. and  3.6 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £49,291,538
<strong>Postcode Education Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045922)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The advancement of education.  3.2	The advancement of health.  3.3	The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4	The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity.    | £49,268,592
<strong>Postcode Children Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044773)]<br>3 	The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2	The advancement of education.  3.3	The advancement of health.  3.4	The saving of lives.  3.5	The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.6	The advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.7	The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £49,118,245
<strong>Postcode Community Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044772](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044772)]<br>OBJECTS 3.	The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote: (i)	The prevention or relief of poverty. (ii)	The advancement of health. (iii)	The advancement of citizenship or community development. (iv)	The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (v)	The advancement of public participation in sport. (vi)	The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities , with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. (vii)	The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (viii)	The promotion of equality and diversity. (ix)	The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. (x)	The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. and (xi)	The advancement of animal welfare.  | £49,113,405
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000
<strong>The Snooks Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052180](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052180)]<br>5.3 For the purposes of the 2005 Act the following charitable purposes are (i) particularly relevant and  (ii) are the charitable purposes identified as applicable from section 7 of the 2005 Act:- 5.3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 5.3.2 The advancement of education. 5.3.3 The advancement of religion. 5.3.4 The advancement of health (including the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering). 5.3.5 The saving of lives. 5.3.6 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). 5.3.7 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 5.3.8 The advancement of public participation in sport (and 'sport' means sport which involves physical skill and exertion). 5.3.9 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended, and only in relation to recreational facilities or activities which are :- 5.3.9.1 primarily intended for persons who have need of them by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. or 5.3.9.2 available to members of the public at large or to male or female members of the public at large. 5.3.10 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. 5.3.11 The promotion of religious or racial harmony. 5.3.12 The promotion of equality and diversity. 5.3.13 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 5.3.14 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage (including relief given by the provision of accommodation or care). 5.3.15 The advancement of animal welfare. 5.3.16 The relief of unemployment. 5.3.17 The advancement of philosophical belief. 5.3.18 The promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of policing and the promotion of the efficiency and effectiveness of the armed forces. | £31,371,100
<strong>Postcode Innovation Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC046499](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046499)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2 The advancement of education.  3.3 The advancement of health.  3.4 The saving of lives.  3.5 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.6 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.7 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement. and  3.8 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability,  financial hardship or other disadvantage  | £29,564,838
<strong>Postcode Global Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC044038](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044038)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The prevention or relief of poverty.  3.2 The advancement of education.  3.3 The advancement of health.  3.4 The saving of lives.  3.5 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.6 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.7 The advancement of environmental protection and improvement. and  3.8 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability,  financial hardship or other disadvantage.    | £29,022,103


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>IMMIGRANTS WORKFORCE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [1194707](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1194707)]<br>General Charitable PurposesDisabilityThe Prevention Or Relief Of Poverty by aiding with given away public and private donationsFinancial support to migrant families without recourse to social welfareHuman Rights/religious Or Racial Harmony/equality Or Diversity | £2,800
<strong>Sudanese Group Lothian</strong> [Charity number: [SC054559](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054559)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  The prevention or relief of poverty among Sudanese people in the Lothians (Edinburgh and surrounding areas) by addressing its root causes—such as poor health, low income, and unemployment.  The advancement of education of Sudanese people in the Lothians to improve educational attainment, employment prospects, and civic participation.  The Advancement of Health and wellbeing of Sudanese people in the Lothians.  The Advancement of the Arts, Heritage, Culture or Science among Sudanese people in Edinburgh and the wider public.   The Provision of Recreational Activities to improve the lives of Sudanese people in the Lothians by providing access to inclusive recreational activities.  The Promotion of Equality and Diversity by working with others to tackle discrimination, exclusion, and unequal opportunities.   The Relief of Those in Need of Sudanese people in the Lothians who are disadvantaged due to factors such as age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or other social or personal circumstances.   | 
<strong>Just Festivals</strong> [Charity number: [SC042638](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042638)]<br>the Company's objects are for the benefit of the public to promote religious and racial harmony, equality, diversity, and to advance community development including (but not limited to) organising an annual festival to promote the objects of the Company and/or activities or events with similar aims throughout the year. | £7,738
<strong>Kinghorn Settlement Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042385](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042385)]<br>(a) the prevention or relief of poverty. (b) the advancement of education. (d) the advancement of health. (e) the saving of lives. (f) the advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration and the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities). (g)  the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. (h) the advancement of public participation in sport. (i) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. j) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. (k) the promotion of religious or racial harmony. (I) the promotion of equality and diversity. (m) the advancement of environmental protection or improvement: (n) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (o) the advancement of animal welfare. (p) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £1,396
<strong>Rainbow Rogues</strong> [Charity number: [SC046756](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046756)]<br>The organisations purposes are to provide comprehensive support for families with additional support needs or disabilities. This purpose aligns with several charitable purposes as outlined in section 7(2) of the 2005 Act, specifically: - The Advancement of Health (d): Through our focus on emotional and mental health support. - The Relief of Those in Need by Reason of Age, Ill-Health, Disability, Financial Hardship or Other Disadvantage (n): As we support families and children with additional support needs or disabilities. - The Promotion of Equality and Diversity (l): By offering tailored support and embracing inclusivity. - The Advancement of Citizenship or Community Development (f): Through our efforts in fostering community support and empowerment. | £95,788
<strong>MANCHESTER PRIDE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1117848](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117848)]<br>Promote equality and diversity for the public benefit and in particular the elimination of discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, including in particular but not exclusively by raising the awareness of the public with regard to all aspects of discrimination in society and issues and difficulties affecting the lives of lesbian, gay and bisexual and transgender people. | £2,715,806
<strong>Inspiring Communities SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC037761](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037761)]<br>4.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 4.2 The advancement of education. 4.3 The advancement of health. 4.4 The advancement of citizenship or community development (including rural or urban regeneration). 4.5 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science. 4.6 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 4.7 The promotion of equality and diversity. 4.8 The advancement of environmental protection or improvement. 4.9 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.10 The advancement of other similar charitable purposes, projects, initiatives or activities as the charity trustees may consider appropriate. | £246,594
<strong>Cross Ethnic</strong> [Charity number: [SC041922](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041922)]<br>1. Name and objectives The organisation, named Glasgow Integrated Community Empowerment and International Support (GICES) based in Glasgow, is established to address the growing need to support Ethnic Minorities and host community in Glasgow as well as to provide International Support to those in need, and our objectives as mentioned below aim at processing integration and active citizenship for all. GICE will work in partnership with all concerned stakeholders within charitable objectives:  The objectives of GICEIS are: • To promote and advance the contribution of multicultural Ethnic Minority communities in Glasgow through promoting social inclusion and harmony among the diverse communities as well as to encourage contribution of wider society to support our initiatives to work with people in need and to provide humanitarian assistance outside of the UK.  • To advance citizenship through assisting in removing barriers (e.g language, discrimination and exclusion) of EM in Glasgow and in places where GICEIS will run its activities oversees, as well as through empowering an active role locally promoting and supporting equality at all levels. In addition, we will promote social cohesion and active participation in civic society, as well as building direct links between local disadvantaged communities and policy makers addressing areas of support in relation to Health, Housing and education and overall welfare of these communities.  • To relief poverty through empowering members of the diverse communities (youth, women, student etc.) in Glasgow and in places where GICEIS will run its activities in their engagement through community initiatives empowering a voice for these groups and assisting in helping them to develop relevant skills in this respect as well as to provide humanitarian assistance.  GICEIS will deploy co-operation and partnership in the achievement of these objectives or any of them.  | £15,501
<strong>The Clyde FC Community Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC044165](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044165)]<br>3.1 To advance public participation in sport in Scotland through the promotion of participation in football and other sports which involve physical skill and exertion. by any means including providing coaching and development.  3.2 To advance health in Scotland by the promotion of the benefits of physical activity, provision of assistance in relation to sponsor related and healthy lifestyle matters. and the promotion of good mental health.  3.3 To promote community development and equality and diversity in Scotland by encouraging participation in sports, activities and programmes which bring together a cross section of the  community, encouraging all to participate, regardless of background or ability.  3.4 To provide recreational facilities, or organise recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the public at large and also for those who have need of such facilities or would benefit from such activities by reason of their youth, age. Infirmity or disablement, financial hardship or social and economic circumstances.  3.5 To advance education in the community in Scotland, particularly in relation to health and fitness, sporting activity and life skills. through providing or organising educational, training and lifelong learning opportunities. | £31,209
<strong>OPEN PALM</strong> [Charity number: [1190203](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190203)]<br>Providing educational resources to underfunded schools or individuals. Providing skills-based educational programmes to under 18s. Promoting racial equality and racial harmony through awareness initiatives. | £53,969
