# Citizenship `SO101`

Citizenship is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

4,745 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.34% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(citizenship|global citizens?|civic (duty|responsibility|pride|engagement))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,304 | 3.08%
£10k - £100k | 1,109 | 1.62%
£100k - £250k | 393 | 1.89%
£250k - £500k | 174 | 1.74%
£1m - £10m | 155 | 1.82%
£500k - £1m | 107 | 1.73%
Over £10m | 50 | 2.42%
Total | 4,292 | 2.25%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 562 | 0.33%
ccni | 85 | 1.18%
oscr | 4,098 | 16.48%
Total | 4,745 | 2.34%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>University Of Aberdeen</strong> [Charity number: [SC013683](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013683)]<br>The advancement of education.  The advancement of health.  The advance ment of civic responsibility and community development.  The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science | £272,779,000
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>Richmond Fellowship Scotland Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC021621](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC021621)]<br>The objects of the Society are the relief of those who are vulnerable and in need of support, care, advice or other assistance due to reasons of their vulnerability. The Society will or may do this through: - The advancement of health and well being. - The advancement of education. - The advancement of citizenship or community development. - The provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational activities, with the objective of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. - The relief of those in need. This may be by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage and any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. - The prevention or relief of povert | £99,637,000
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £80,253,000
<strong>Edinburgh Merchant Company Education Board</strong> [Charity number: [SC009747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009747)]<br>The Education Board?s Charitable Purposes are: (a) the advancement of education, particularly the education and advancement of children and young people. (b) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture and science.  (c) the advancement of public participation in sport.  (d) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. and (e) the advancement of citizenship or community development. | £76,933,963
<strong>ENABLE Communities Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC049060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049060)]<br>4.1 The objects of the Company are (i) the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability or other disadvantage. (ii) the advancement of health. and (iii) the advancement of citizenship and community development through the promotion of the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. and in furtherance of those objects but not otherwise:-  (a)   to support and promote the interests and welfare of people with learning disabilities or communication difficulties, physical disabilities, hearing and visual impairment, or other illness and disability, including working to meet their needs, development their capabilities and enable and encourage them to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives.  (b)  to promote mutual help, support, co-operation and understanding  amongst people with all forms of illness and disability, and their relatives and friends and those providing services to them.  (c)   to promote and encourage the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people with all forms of illness and disability, their families and carers including the provision of special forms of housing and residential care and support to beneficiaries (in particular amongst those who have more profound disabilities).  (d)   to encourage research into the causes, treatment and management of all kinds of illness and disability and to disseminate the useful results of such research. (e)  to provide support and companionship to enable beneficiaries to pursue their interests and take part in leisure activities.  (f)  to create and deliver personalised, community based support to adults and children.    | £58,532,883
<strong>Postcode Justice Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043779)]<br>3. The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:  3.1 the advancement of education.  3.2 the advancement of health.  3.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. and  3.5 the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation. and  3.6 the promotion of equality and diversity.  | £46,867,366
<strong>Postcode Support Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045861)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1 The advancement of education.  3.2 The promotion of equality and diversity.  3.3 The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.  3.4 The advancement of citizenship or community development.  3.5 The advancement of arts, heritage, culture or science. and  3.6 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £46,811,573
<strong>Postcode Earth Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC045749](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045749)]<br>The Company is incorporated for charitable objects and purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland or elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established to promote:   3.1	The advancement of education.  3.2	The advancement of citizenship or community development. and  3.3	The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.  | £46,681,463
<strong>Nesta</strong> [Charity number: [SC042833](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042833)]<br>The objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: 2.1 To advance education, and in particular the study of innovation, by the promotion of research and the publication of the useful results thereof, in: 2.1.1 Science and technology. 2.1.2 The arts. 2.1.3 The efficiency of public services. 2.1.4 The Voluntary sector and social enterprise. and 2.1.5 Industry and commerce. 2.2 To advance: 2.2.1 Science and technology 2.2.2 The arts 2.2.3 The efficiency of public services 2.2.4 The voluntary sector 2.2.5 Industry and commerce and social enterprise which (a) Relieves poverty (b) Relieves unemployment (c) Advances health (d) Advances environmental protection or improvement and sustainable development (e) Advances citizenship or community development through or by encouraging and supporting innovation. 'The voluntary sector' means charities and voluntary organisations. Charities are organisations, which are established for exclusively charitable purposes in accordance with the law of England and Wales. Voluntary organisations are independent organisations, which are established for purposes that add value to the community as a whole, or a significant section of the community, and which are not permitted by their constitution to make a profit for private distribution. Voluntary organisations do not include local government or other statutory authorities. 'Sustainable development' means 'development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs'. 2.3 To advance any other purpose which is recognised as exclusively charitable under the laws of England and Wales and Scotland. | £46,215,787


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>2nd Lockerbie Guide Unit</strong> [Charity number: [SC038611](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038611)]<br>Promoting the instruction of girls of all classes in the principles of discipline, loyalty and good citizenship' | £2,899
<strong>Central Advocacy Partners</strong> [Charity number: [SC025729](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC025729)]<br>a. The advancement of education and awareness raising about learning disabilities, through the provision of formal and informal training in educational bodies such as schools and further education colleges, as well as in the public, private and voluntary and public sectors, including community groups. b. The advancement of citizenship including the rights and responsibilities of the citizen, as well as: the development of opportunities for people with learning disabilities and other vulnerable people to be more active in their communities, involving people in community activity including volunteering. c. The advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation through our advocacy services. d The promotion of equality and diversity including the elimination of discrimination e. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage, contributing to the prevention or relief of poverty through information and advocacy. | £416,266
<strong>Logiealmond & Glenalmond Community [SCIO]</strong> [Charity number: [SC052024](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052024)]<br>The organisation's charitable purposes are:  By providing, managing and promoting a village hall for the benefit of the inhabitants of Logiealmond and Glenalmond, Perthshire (comprising Chapelhill, Logiealmond, Glenalmond, Buchanty and environs), also of members of the public generally, to:  4.1 provide recreational facilities, or for the organisation of recreational facilities.  4.2 promote the arts, heritage, culture, and science.  4.3 promote citizenship and community development. | £6,481
<strong>St George's, Edinburgh</strong> [Charity number: [SC012632](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC012632)]<br>The objects of the School are:- (a) to advance education through the maintenance, management, development     and carrying on of a school or schools, in particular (but without prejudice to the foregoing generality) through the promotion of educational excellence for girls and the carrying on at St George’s School, Edinburgh of a primary and secondary school for girls, a primary school for boys up to and including Primary 3, and a nursery school for girls and boys, including the provision of boarding facilities and support for the personal, social and intellectual development of its pupils. (b) (i) to work in partnership within the Scottish education sector to advance education, in particular (but without prejudice to the foregoing generality) through the training and continuing professional development of teachers, collaboration with and the provision of assistance to relevant national bodies in relation to the national curriculum, and the promotion of the setting and marking of national examinations and other activities designed to advance education in Scotland for the public benefit. (ii) to advance citizenship or community development and culture, in particular (but without prejudice to the foregoing generality) through the provision of community support and public benefit through the voluntary sector, the establishment and maintenance of community partnerships with local authority schools, the encouragement of volunteering and the promotion of civic responsibility amongst pupils, the creation of international links and partnerships, and promotion within the community of an understanding and awareness of Scotland and its culture and those of other countries. CONT'D | £11,371,240
<strong>The Stewart Macphail Memorial Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC048983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048983)]<br>The Charitable Purposes of the SCIO ('the Charitable Purposes') are to provide funding to charities primarily, but not exclusively, operating or providing benefit to the District of Kenmore, Perth & Kinross, in order to assist in the support and/or implementation of their own activities and projects, the purposes of which promote any of the following:- 3.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty. 3.1.2 The advancement of education. 3.1.3 The advancement of religion . 3.1.4 The saving of lives. 3.1.5 The advancement of citizenship or community development. 3.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 3.1.7 Relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 3.2 The District of Kenmore is defined as the district immediately to the south of the river Tay and Loch Tay from and including the district of Styx (or Stix) to and including the district of Ardeonaig following the watershed, and on the North banks of Tirarthur to Comrie Bridge, again following the watershed, which area is also shown outlined in red on the plan at Schedule 2 annexed hereto, which plan is demonstrative only, (“the District of Kenmore”).  | £1,116
<strong>Portrush Sea Cadet Unit</strong> [Charity number: [NI104126](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104126)]<br>The charity purpose of the Sea Cadet Corps (SCC) is to promote the development of young people in achieving their physical, intellectual and social potential as individuals and as responsible citizens by the provision of education and leisure time activities using a nautical theme. 1.1.2 We aim to achieve this by: a. Offering young people a structured environment in which to develop. b. Providing access for young people to education and training in a wide range of areas which may include but not exclusively: sailing (inshore and offshore), paddle sports, power boating, seamanship, navigation, marine engineering, cooking, music, first aid, drill, piping, public services. c. Providing opportunities for young people to obtain a range of qualifications some of which are nationally accredited and recognised. d. Promoting good citizenship through community involvement. 1.1.3 The aim of the SCC is to give young people the best possible head start in life through nautical adventure and fun based on the customs and traditions of the Royal Navy. | £41,210
<strong>Scottish Afghan Society SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC044170](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044170)]<br>4.1 To relieve poverty and suffering through the provision of services and advice in the areas of social welfare, healthcare, interpretation and translation, education and employment, primarily, but not exclusively, in Scotland. 4.2 To advance education and personal development through the provision of information. Supplementary and language classes. and vocational courses as well as the provision of advice about such courses. 4.3 To relieve suffering caused by bereavement, war, political, religious prosecution, sexual discrimination and natural disaster. 4.4 To promote religious and racial harmony by encouraging participation amongst members from all faiths and hold inter-faith information sessions. The organisation shall celebrate the contribution migrants and refugees have made and how welcome people have been made in Scotland. The organisation shall work in partnership with other organisations, which share its aims of equality and anti-racist stance. 4.5 To support people to become more involved in their local community and promote citizenship. The organisation shall assist young people to form their own project ideas and help them apply for funding. The organisation shall provide meeting facilities for elderly in order to facilitate learning new skills and actively encourage women to participate more within the Scottish-Afghan community and challenge perceptions evolved from culture differences. | £2,891
<strong>Malawi Fruits</strong> [Charity number: [SC042777](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042777)]<br>The prevention or relief of poverty, the advancement of citizenship and community development and the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantages by operating as a fundraising and grant-giving (through financial support, volunteering, the provision of equipment, training and otherwise) organisation to primarily support social enterprise and similar community organisations based in Malawi initially through the support of social enterprise in Malawi focussed on  food processing and distribution. | £159,358
<strong>Royal British Legion Scotland Turriff & District Branch</strong> [Charity number: [SC028970](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028970)]<br>4. CHARITABLE PURPOSES AND PRINCIPLES 4.1 The charitable purposes of RBLS are: - 4.1.1 The prevention or relief of poverty amongst men or women who have at any time honourably served with any branch of the naval, military and air forces of the Crown (whether Regular or Reserve). Royal Observer Corps and members of HM Coastguard. the Merchant Navy. the Forces of Allied Nations. the Women’s Land Army. the Women’s Timber Corps. Bevin Boys, members of the War Widows Association or Adult Cadet Instructors and their spouses, partners and dependants, hereinafter referred to as “ex-Service men and women”. 4.1.2 The advancement of citizenship and community development by the encouragement of co-operation between ex-Service men and women and others supporting the objects of RBLS through the establishment of Branches, by promoting and encouraging volunteering and the principle of service to others and by perpetuating and honouring the memory of those who died in the service of their country through the education of the public and through acts of remembrance. 4.1.3 The relief of ex-Service men and women in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.1.4 The advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science by the promotion of music, including the music of pipe bands and military bands and the encouragement of participation in music by young people. by preserving war memorials and by promoting and parading ceremonial colours as a tribute to those ex-Service men and women who have died in the service of their country and as a symbol of belief in our common culture. 4.1.5 The advancement of public participation in sport. 4.1.6 The provision of recreational facilities and the organisation of recreational activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for ex-service men and women in particular and for members of the public generally. and 4.1.7 Any other purposes that reasonably may be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. | £31,124
<strong>Kirkcudbright Guides</strong> [Charity number: [SC035252](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC035252)]<br>Promoting the instruction of girls of all classes in the principles of discipline, loyalty and good citizenship | £1,509
