# Racial justice `SO106`

Racial justice is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

119 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.06% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(bigotry|racis(t|m)|racialism|racial hate crimes?|colonialis[mt]|anti[- ]semitism|racial prejudice|xenophobia)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 26 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 34 | 0.05%
£100k - £250k | 23 | 0.11%
£250k - £500k | 15 | 0.14%
£500k - £1m | 4 | 0.06%
£1m - £10m | 10 | 0.11%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.09%
Total | 114 | 0.06%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 64 | 0.04%
oscr | 30 | 0.12%
ccni | 25 | 0.35%
Total | 119 | 0.06%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>COMMUNITY SECURITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1042391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042391)]<br>CST seeks to protect Britain's diverse and vibrant Jewish community from the external threats of bigotry, antisemitism and terrorism. CST provides physical security, training and advice for the protection of British Jews, assists victims of antisemitism, monitors antisemitic activities and incidents and represents British Jewry to Police, Government and media on antisemitism and security. | £28,497,320
<strong>Community Security Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC043612](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043612)]<br>1.1 The objects of the Charity shall be: 1.1.1 to promote good race relations between the Jewish community and other members of society by working towards the elimination of racism in the form of anti-Semitism. 1.1.2 to promote the efficiency of the police within the community at large and the promotion of good citizenship and greater public participation in the prevention of crime with particular reference to the maintenance of public order and racially motivated especially anti-Semitic crime. 1.1.3 to relieve the victims of racial or religious harassment and especially anti-Semitic harassment who are in need or who have suffered hardship or distress. 1.1.4 to promote research into racism and anti-Semitism and to publish the useful results of such research and otherwise to promote public education about racism and anti-Semitism. 1.1.5 Subject to clause 1.3 to promote and support such other purposes as are charitable in accordance with the laws of England and Wales, as the Trustees may from time to time think fit.   | £28,497,320
<strong>CHELSEA FC FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1129723](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1129723)]<br>Chelsea FC Foundation is the official charity affiliated to and supported by Chelsea Football Club, providing (i) sports coaching and facilities for participation in football, other healthy sports and recreation; (ii) educational services, including social inclusion and anti-racism projects; (iii) support for other charitable initiatives, including the environment and welfare of children. | £8,612,201
<strong>StreetGames UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC046149](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046149)]<br>The Company is established for charitable purposes only and the objects of the company are: (a) The promotion of community participation in recreational activities, including sport, social, cultural and artistic activities to improve the health, well-being and conditions of life of those, particularly children and young people, living mainly in areas of social and economic deprivation by the following means I. The provision, development, management and funding of facilities for recreational activities. II. The provision of assistance in the provision of recreational and social facilities for the public at large and/or those who, by reasons of their youth, age, infirmity or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances have need of such facilities. III. The provision of financial and other assistance, to individuals, teams, clubs, particularly children and young people, to pursue sport, and other recreational activities. Such assistance to include, but not be limited to, bursaries, help towards travel, equipment, employment, and other costs. IV. The advancement of education, training and retraining, particularly, but not exclusively, among children, young people, low skilled, and unemployed people. (b) The promotion of community cohesion and anti-racism through sport and physical activity. (c) The promotion of such other charitable purposes as may from time to time be determined by the Trustees as being in fulfilment of the Charity’s objects. Throughout these Memorandum and Articles of Association 'charitable' means charitable in accordance with the law of England and Wales provided that it will not include any purpose which is not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and/or section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008. | £8,206,552
<strong>Irish FA Foundation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106229](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106229)]<br>Our activities promote foster and develop football for all in Northern Ireland, creating a fun, safe and inclusive culture which inspires a life long love of the game. Creating opportunities, inspiring change and helping people fulfil their potential on and off the pitch. Serving the community through football and education. We strive to work with all individuals and groups and have developed a range of initiatives and programmes which support these beneficiaries. This leads to increased social inclusion, improved health, community integration and education and career opportunities. We promote and hold activities such as youth football camps, football for all programmes, anti racism and anti sectarian workshops, educational tours, disability and homeless football programmes and related career pathways. These activities help to improve the general health, well being and enhance the lives of all participants. Financial and economic deprivation is reduced for the beneficiaries through access to services and interventions. Beneficiaries can be empowered through increased education and awareness of the role they can play within mainstream society. This leads to more active and healthy lives. The organisation pursues opportunities to raise awareness and promote equality through football in the furtherance of a more peaceful and cohesive society. | £3,274,293
<strong>The Nerve Centre</strong> [Charity number: [NI103703](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103703)]<br>The Nerve Centre was established as a focal point for youth culture in Derry/Londonderry and is considered one of the UK’s most dynamic and innovative creative arts and education centres. By bringing popular music, film, video, animation and digital media together under one roof, the Nerve Centre promotes creative collaboration and fusion between artists and provides a cultural outlet for many young people. Housed in a state-of-the-art building comprising music venue, cinema, edit suites, rehearsal and recording studios, and education & training facilities, the Nerve Centre currently has over 100,000 people benefiting from its various events, programmes and projects. The Nerve Centre also provides a comprehensive annual programme of performances, exhibitions, education, training and project based work in music, culture, cinema,visual art, digital media and film education. This includes the Foyle Film Festival, Intercultural & Anti-racism Festival, after schools FILMCLUB, and creative learning centres. The Nerve Centre has a national and International reputation for it’s work. The organisation has won a variety of awards including Training and Education awards. | £2,700,602
<strong>YOUNG PEOPLE CORNWALL</strong> [Charity number: [801688](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801688)]<br>Today we support work with 11 -25 year olds through specialist projects and programmes addressing issues that marginalise or place young people at risk, including mental health, homelessness, crime, racism, sexuality, drug & alcohol use, abuse, rural isolation and poverty. | £1,873,001
<strong>FRIENDS FAMILIES AND TRAVELLERS</strong> [Charity number: [1112326](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112326)]<br>We work at national, regional and local level on behalf of all Gypsies and Travellers regardless of ethnicity, culture or background. Our work is built on three main pillars - Casework, Capacity Building and Campaigning and we work in our own right and with partner organisations towards seeking to eliminate racism and discrimination against Gypsies and Travellers. | £1,545,049
<strong>Show Racism The Red Card</strong> [Charity number: [SC040713](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC040713)]<br>The objects of the Company shall be to advance the education of the. public, in particular but not exclusively of young people, by harnessing the high profile of professional football and the position of professional footballers as role models, in order to work-towards the elimination of racial discrimination both in football and in society in general. | £1,326,703
<strong>SHOW RACISM THE RED CARD</strong> [Charity number: [1116971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116971)]<br>Show Racism The Red Card is an anti-racist educational charity. We aim to combat racism through enabling role models, who are predominately but not exclusively footballers, to present an anti-racist message to young people and others | £1,326,703


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Barlanark Out-Of-School Care Service</strong> [Charity number: [SC020561](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC020561)]<br>The advancement of the education and social welfare of children in Barlanark and its environs by the development of Day Care and recreational facilities for children especially those children . from lone parent families and families where both parents are in full-time employment, further/higher education or training during Out-of-School hours and school holidays. The Association shall be Non-Party Political, Non-Sectarian Non-Racist. | £145,217
<strong>Minority Ethnic Christians Together In Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC042912](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042912)]<br>a) In general to enable and support minority ethnic Christians and Christian Churches in Scotland in their partnership together and with other organisations b) Specifically to support minority ethnic Churches, church organisations and individual Christians to a. grow together in faith b. work in partnership with traditional churches and other church groups and organisations c) To represent the voices and views of Minority Ethnic Churches and Christians to public authorities and other groups and channels of communication d) To promote relationships and the meaningful inclusion of minority ethnic Christians and churches in society e) To challenge exclusion and racism, particularly as experienced by minority ethnic Christians and churches in Scotland f) To facilitate the good flow of information between members and with wider communities g) To promote the welfare of Minority Ethnic Christians in Scotland h) To promote, establish and operate schemes of a charitable nature for the benefit of minority ethnic Christians and churches in Scotland | 
<strong>FACING HISTORY AND OURSELVES</strong> [Charity number: [1103592](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103592)]<br>Facing History & Ourselves uses lessons of history to challenge teachers and their students to stand up to bigotry and hatred. The curriculum resources and training combine academic rigour, emotional engagement and ethical reflection so that students learn to engage in civil discourse, learn critical thinking skills and develop civic agency to help create a more inclusive and empathetic society. | £558,219
<strong>African and Caribbean Support Organisation Northern Ireland (ACSONI)</strong> [Charity number: [NI105267](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105267)]<br>Our services involve the provision of 1-1 drop in support services, signposting, advocacy, adult and youth programmes (The Intercultural Youth Hub), community safety programmes, training, cross-border/transnational programmes, representation, events/conferences/seminars, health awareness, themed excursions, research, and family support services, women's projects (WIN), FGM awareness and safeguarding activities, ensuring that all service users understand the fundamentals and importance of cross community collaboration and inclusion, to manage risks of marginalisation and isolation. ACSONI also provides opportunities for the African and Caribbean Community to participate in local intercultural celebrations and share their own cultural expressions through the arts and educational programmes such as African Diversity Week, Caribbean Diversity Week and African &Caribbean History Month. Through partnership working ACSONI has a wider reach and provides mentoring and developmental support to individuals and a wide range of smaller African/Caribbean organisations throughout Northern Ireland. We are also proactive in campaigning against hate and supporting victims of racism or xenophobic crimes, promoting cultural diversity, awareness raising and supporting people from an African and Caribbean backgrounds to play a full and active role in cultural and civil life. | £122,311
<strong>Blairdardie Out Of School Service - Boss</strong> [Charity number: [SC024917](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024917)]<br>To promote the care and education of children in need of care during out of school hours and school holidays and to promote the provision of facilities for the recreation and other leisure time occupation of such children in the interest of social welfare with the object of improving their conditions of life.  To advance the education and training of the parents and carers of these children by the promotion and provision of safe childcare facilities.   To advance the education and training of persons providing such care, education and recreational facilities. the Association shall be Non-Party Political, Non-Sectarian, Non-Racist and Non-Sexist. | £213,927
<strong>Craigavon Travellers Support Committee</strong> [Charity number: [NI104620](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104620)]<br>Craigavon Travellers Support Committee works with Travellers to improve their quality of life. CTSC will continue To ensure the accommodation needs of Travellers are continually highlighted. To work with the Northern Ireland Housing Executive and other statutory agencies to challenge the negative impact of poor accommodation on Traveller health, education, employability, racism and integration. To use Community Development approaches to improve the health and social well-being of Travellers including building capacity to engage with health-related providers To enhance the educational opportunities of young Travellers by encouraging increased school attendance. To facilitate educational, training or employability opportunities, internally and in partnership with other agencies To advocate, in partnership with other ethnic minority groups, the development of culturally sensitive educational provision. To ensure that all work carried out by CTSC is inclusive, fair and equitable. To challenge racism in all its forms with, and on the behalf of Travellers. To advance the integration of Travellers by contributing to Government Policy development and by delivering anti-racism and anti-discriminatory training. To advance the levels of co-operation between CTSC, Travellers and the statutory and voluntary sectors. To review and maintain existing partnerships, and to identify new partners to further the aims and objectives of CTSC. To signpost Travellers to the range of advice and support services available in the area. To support external agencies in meeting the needs of Travellers. To continue to provide the family drop in service to ensure Travellers have the information and support to access all relevant services. To encourage and facilitate Travellers, through capacity building, to develop skills and knowledge to enable individual and collective action. To maintain internal and external monitoring and evaluation mechanisms, in order to measure the impact of the project. | £177,120
<strong>Building Communities Resource Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI104953](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104953)]<br>BCRC provides a support network for community and voluntary organisations; including guidance on community development, project development and delivery, governance and funding.. We provide support to areas of weak infrastructure through training and capacity building; strategic and action planning with groups; plus needs analyses, research and evaluation. BCRC coordinates and delivers training on an anti-hate crime initiative; delivers projects for BME, youth, disability, older people, women and cohesion programmes. We provide information and support plus community education and training for capacity building; governance and management support for community associations; strategic and action planning; research and evaluation. In addition we facilitate cultural awareness sessions, and community dialogue facilitation. BCRC receives core funding from CRC and delivered in six Peace III programmes, addressing sectarianism and racism, visible manifestations of conflict and promoting good leadership in a Shared Society. BCRC manages an Ethnic Minority Support Project and a Disability Development Programme each having two staff members. These two projects operate a drop-in facility, as well as working closely with statutory agencies to provide practical support to users, and providing information and cultural/prejudice awareness training for a wide variety of groups. We are lead partner of COAST, the sub-regional network for Older People, delivering a Big Lottery programme addressing social isolation and promoting well-being across the Causeway area, as well as hosting the NHSCT Community Navigator for older people who acts as a bridge between Health Professionals and the Third Sector. | £206,289
<strong>COMMUNITY SECURITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1042391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042391)]<br>CST seeks to protect Britain's diverse and vibrant Jewish community from the external threats of bigotry, antisemitism and terrorism. CST provides physical security, training and advice for the protection of British Jews, assists victims of antisemitism, monitors antisemitic activities and incidents and represents British Jewry to Police, Government and media on antisemitism and security. | £28,497,320
<strong>Scottish Theatre Alliance for Growing Education and Diversity</strong> [Charity number: [SC050759](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050759)]<br>Trust purposes 1. The Trustees shall hold and apply the sum of£ 1 paid by us to them, and such other funds and assets as may from time to time be comprised in the Trust Property, in trust for the following purposes: - (a) Education 1. To promote equality and understanding within the performing arts education (Secondary and Further/Higher) sector, on issues around common forms of discrimination including (but not limited to): Racism, Homophobia, Transphobia, Xenophobia, Classism, Sexism and Ableism. 11. To use the medium of Performing Arts Practice to bring about change and open the conversation around issues of social injustice within different educational settings for learners. iii. To create resources and learning opportunities to assist in the promotion of inclusive teaching practices and anti-bias training for educators. iv. To give access to comprehensive resources and materials for workshop leaders, educators and (b) Representation 1. To continually address the lack of racial and socio-economic representation within performing arts institutions within Scotland and find positive steps to engage young people who might fall through the cracks. 11. To create workshops and performing opportunities for young people who may have racial, financial, and social obstacles which prevent their engagement in the arts 111. To create a greater community within the young performing artists of Scotland. (c) Support 1. To support young learners to the best of our ability and training who require assistance with any issues of discrimination. 11. To create and run initiatives to support issues around Mental Health for Scottish performing artists and learners. 111. To create and manage a grant system to support audition opportunities and costs for Scottish applicants for Performing Arts Further and Higher Education institutions. 1v. To offer ongoing community and support for Scottish performing artists after they have completed their training. 2. The expenses of creating and administering the Trust, and any tax payable in relation to the Trust, shall be met in priority to all other payments and transfers of assets out of the Trust Property. | £1,330
<strong>Nil By Mouth Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC030375](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030375)]<br>Advancement of education through (a) educating and informing the general public about the problems of sectarianism and bigotry within society (b) promoting integration and pluralism in order to encourage the general public to respect all people and to resist bigotry, intolerance and racism in any shape or form (c) educating the general public in taking responsibility for their own attitudes and language and recognising that this can make a positive difference to society and (d) advancing education in general but in particular by the provision of financial assistance to young persons living in or closely connected with Scotland to assist them in undertaking further education all whether in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland or elsewhere | £122,088
