# Religious; racial or cross-border harmony `SO107`

Religious; racial or cross-border harmony is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Society](SO.md) category.

1,093 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.54% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cross-cultural|(ethnic|racial|religious|cross[- ]border) harmony|inter-? ?faith)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 371 | 0.52%
£10k - £100k | 313 | 0.44%
£100k - £250k | 141 | 0.63%
£250k - £500k | 72 | 0.65%
£500k - £1m | 48 | 0.69%
£1m - £10m | 43 | 0.47%
Over £10m | 6 | 0.27%
Total | 994 | 0.51%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 672 | 0.39%
oscr | 398 | 1.60%
ccni | 23 | 0.33%
Total | 1,093 | 0.54%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £74,790,071
<strong>Foundation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC022910](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC022910)]<br>2.1 The Objects of the Foundation are specifically restricted to the charitable purposes contained in this Article 2.   2.2 The Objects to be undertaken in Scotland or elsewhere for which the Foundation is established are:   2.2.1 the advancement of citizenship or community development, to include rural and/or urban regeneration, the promotion of civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and the effectiveness or efficiency of charities.   2.2.2  the prevention or relief of poverty.   2.2.3  the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.   2.2.4  the advancement of education.   2.2.5  the saving of lives.   2.2.6  the advancement of religion.   2.2.7 the advancement of health, to include the prevention or relief of sickness, disease or human suffering.   2.2.8 the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science.   2.2.9 the advancement of public participation in sport and in the provision of recreational facilities or the organisation of recreational facilities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended.   2.2.10  the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation.   2.2.11  the promotion of religious or racial harmony.   2.2.12 the promotion of equality and diversity.   2.2.13 the advancement of environmental protection or improvement.   2.2.14 the advancement of animal welfare.    2.2.15 any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes. and   2.2.16 any other purpose under section 7 of the Charities Act which is also regarded as a charitable purpose in relation to the application of the Taxes Acts   | £31,449,000
<strong>COMMUNITY SECURITY TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1042391](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1042391)]<br>CST seeks to protect Britain's diverse and vibrant Jewish community from the external threats of bigotry, antisemitism and terrorism. CST provides physical security, training and advice for the protection of British Jews, assists victims of antisemitism, monitors antisemitic activities and incidents and represents British Jewry to Police, Government and media on antisemitism and security. | £28,207,171
<strong>UNITED REFORMED CHURCH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1133373](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1133373)]<br>The provision of public worship in viable congregations through England, Wales and Scotland carried out through faithful ordained and lay ministry in our churches.  Our main charitable activities are: ministry, education & learning, youth & children's work and mission.  This latter includes: supporting local community service, and fostering ecumenical and interfaith relationships at all levels. | £24,364,000
<strong>THE SIR SIGMUND STERNBERG CHARITABLE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [257950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-257950)]<br>To apply the trust fund and income thereof for general charitable purposes, in particular, by the making of grants to charitable institutions and the furtherance of interfaith activities to promote racial and religious harmony between the three abrahamic faiths (Christian, Jewish and Muslim), and the education in, and understanding of, their fundamental tenets and beliefs. | £16,320,680
<strong>Right There</strong> [Charity number: [SC017093](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC017093)]<br>(The company’s objects are:- (a) To support positive change in people's lives. (b) To promote equality and diversity and racial harmony based on equal value of all persons. (c) To promote the intellectual, social and physical well-being of all people who are deemed to need our service. (d) To advance education  to enable people to improve their understanding of the world, of themselves and of one another. (e) To advance citizenship and community development to encourage the involvement of people in the care and work for others. (f) To relieve those in need by reason of their age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage.  | £12,925,402
<strong>SERVANTS FELLOWSHIP INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [280859](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280859)]<br>The charity seeks to promote, maintain and advance the Christian faith, particularly in relation to cross-cultural communication of the Christian faith. | £9,868,428
<strong>Andrew Wemyss Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC051542](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051542)]<br>The purposes of the Trust shall, so far, and so far only, as the same are legally charitable in Scotland, be the provision of public benefit in Scotland and elsewhere through: - (1) the prevention or relief of poverty (2) the advancement of education,  (3) the advancement of health,  (4) the saving of lives, (5) the advancement of citizenship or community development,  (6) the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities,  (7) the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation, (8) the promotion of religious or racial harmony, (9) the promotion of equality and diversity, (10) the advancement of environmental protection and improvement, (11) the relief of those in need, and (12) any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes.  In implementing the purposes of the Trust, the Trustees shall have particular regard to the relief of poverty and the provision of training for and provision of employment in and around Fife. | £9,188,760
<strong>CHURCH MISSION SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [1131655](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131655)]<br>Evangelistic mission through: People in Mission,supporting people in cross-cultural mission. Mission Grants,support for key projects and ministries. Pioneer Training,equipping and mobilising Christians. Leadership Formation,Investing in Christian leaders of the future. Mission Interchange,networking and 'mission together' across cultural and linguistic divides. | £8,275,000
<strong>Bank of Scotland Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC032942](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC032942)]<br>'the prevention or relief of poverty', 'the advancement of education', 'the advancement of health', 'the saving of lives', 'the advancement of citizenship or community development' ,'the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science', 'the advancement of public participation in sport', 'the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended', 'the advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation', 'the promotion of religious or racial harmony', 'the promotion of equality and diversity', 'the advancement of environmental protection or improvement', 'the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage', 'any other purpose that may reasonably be regarded as analogous to any of the preceding purposes'. | £7,455,724


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE JALALIA JAMME MASJEED ENFIELD LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1217341](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1217341)]<br>TO ADVANCE THE ISLAMIC RELIGION IN ENFIELD FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PUBLIC THROUGH THE HOLDING OF PRAYER MEETINGS, LECTURES, PUBLIC CELEBRATIONS OF RELIGIOUS FESTIVALS, PROVIDING ASSISTANCE AND ADVICE IN CONNECTION WITH FUNERALS, MATRIMONIAL AND OTHER FAITH-RELATED SERVICES FOR MUSLIMS, RELIEVING POVERTY BY PROVIDING FUNDS FOR THOSE IN NEED, PROMOTING RELIGIOUS HARMONY BY ENGAGING WITH THE NON-MUSLIM COMMUNITY, AND PRODUCING AND/OR DISTRIBUTING LITERATURE ON THE ISLAMIC FAITH TO ENLIGHTEN OTHERS ABOUT ISLAM. | 
<strong>NOTTINGHAM INTER FAITH COUNCIL</strong> [Charity number: [1127950](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1127950)]<br>Our main activity is to build trust, respect and community through people of differentfaiths and beliefs. The activities of the organisation include:-Holding events to bring people of all faiths together;Encouraging members to engage in dialogueTraining in religious literacy. | £490
<strong>Sitara*</strong> [Charity number: [SC052818](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052818)]<br>The association's purposes are: a) the advancement of education b) the advancement of citizenship or community development c) the advancement of the arts, heritage, culture or science d) the promotion of religious or racial harmony e) the promotion of equality and diversity f) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantage. | 
<strong>Celtic FC Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC024648](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024648)]<br>4.1 the prevention or relief of poverty. 4.2 the advancement of education. 4.3 the advancement of citizenship or community development. 4.4 the advancement of public participation in sport. 4.5 the provision of recreational facilities, or the organisation of recreational activities, with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for whom the facilities or activities are primarily intended. 4.6 the promotion of religious or racial harmony. 4.7 the promotion of equality and diversity. 4.8 the promotion of healthy living. 4.9 the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. and 4.10 the advancement of any of the above purposes or objects by the giving of grants or loans or the provision of credit or other forms of assistance, financial or otherwise, to persons undertaking projects, initiatives and/or activities which further any of the above purposes or objects and which are wholly charitable within the meaning of the Taxes Act and section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £4,211,975
<strong>Lurgan YMCA</strong> [Charity number: [NI100606](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100606)]<br>1.Advancement of education - through its provision of programme based non formal education in areas such as youth work, community education, life-long learning, vocational training, the development of individual competences, skills understanding and capacities. 2.Advancement of health - through the use of health promotion and support for the mental well-being of young people. 3.The advancement of citizenship or community development - Lurgan YMCA encourages and supports volunteers in its programme areas, promoting the development of community groups by extending support, advice as well as allowing use of its premises. 4.Advancement of human rights, conflict resolution or reconciliation or the promotion of religious or racial harmony or equality or diversity - The YMCA provides programmes focussed on building ‘Good Relations’ within communities. It provides training for young people in community leadership, community relations, equality and also diversity. 5.Relief of those in need by reason of youth, age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage - In partnership with other statutory or voluntary organisations, Lurgan YMCA provides direct services to young people and families through volunteer placements, specialist programmes, parental support including community engagement. | £364,553
<strong>SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLY OF THE BAHA'IS OF LIVERPOOL</strong> [Charity number: [1069304](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069304)]<br>Activities focus on the advancement of the Baha'i Faith and belief in the essential oneness of the world's revealed religions and on Baha'i ideals of human brotherhood through various means including devotional meetings, children's classes, youth activities, study sessions and interfaith involvment. | £20,108
<strong>SOUTH RIVERSIDE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CENTRE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1080314](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1080314)]<br>The Charity has an area of benefit of Riverside, Canton, & Grangetown districts in Cardiff, from which it draws membership.The Charity's activities are encompassed in the following ways by which it seeks to work with those who live and work in the area:1) foster empowerment of individuals and groups2) ensure access to services & opportunities3) develop strong cross-cultural relationships | £469,430
<strong>Logos Ministries International</strong> [Charity number: [NI104004](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104004)]<br>1. Mission Awareness Programme (MAP) 2. Youth & Schools Outreach (YSO) 3. Bible Teaching Ministry (BTM) 4. Overseas Ministry Programme (OMP). Through our MAP we visit churches to mobilise Christians to engage with world missions. We raise awareness of our partnership ministries and the state of Christianity in their respective countries. Funds and prayer support for these ministries are generated through this work. We also work with migrant Christians living in Ireland to mobilise them as cross-cultural missionaries. Our YSO Team visits schools and youth groups. In schools they educate young people about the Christian faith and its relevance by conducting RE classes and assemblies. The team also encourages and equips Christian young people by ministering at school Scripture Union groups. The youth ministry involves visiting church youth groups and events. Our team shares the Gospel; teaches young people about the foundational aspects of Christianity; and encourages young Christians to live out their faith and share Christ with their friends. Our BTM consists of biblical distance learning programmes, which are offered to individuals around the world free of charge. The certificate level programmes cover Christian teaching on the essentials of the faith and practical application of the truth. Our current courses include: Christian Education Programme, Certificate in Biblical Studies, Leadership Study Programme and Women’s Christian Study Programme. The OMP sends teams overseas. They range from leadership training teams that conduct leadership seminar training with Christian leaders in other parts of the world, to volunteers undertaking children’s ministry. Women’s and church ministry is also undertaken in some programmes. Our OMP encompasses partnerships with other ministries overseas and the funding of specific projects to support them. This includes, but is not limited to, the funding of outreaches or training events conducted by indigenous people. | £417,159
<strong>Eco-Congregation Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC041287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041287)]<br>(a) The advancement of environmental protection or improvement through a structured programme for congregations of self audit and practical activities to protect the environment.  (b) The advancement of education through raising awareness and understanding of environmental issues and their relationship to faith and community.  (c) The advancement of religion through publication of materials and practical environmental action showing how care for creation and Christian faith and understanding can promote environmental protection.  (d) The advancement of citizenship or community development through encouraging participating congregations to support each other and local communities in developing environmental awareness and action. and  (e) The promotion of religious or racial harmony through a demonstration that care for creation is an essential part of all faiths and by working with other faiths to promote this understanding. | £51,863
<strong>Larne Christian Fellowship</strong> [Charity number: [NI100687](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100687)]<br>Provision and maintenance of a place of Public worship at 211 Old Glenarm Road, Larne BT40 1TT Church Services open to the public were held regularly by the Trust: Sunday 11.00am-12.45pm Family Communion Service Sunday 11.50am–12.45pm Sunday School ( for under 16s) Sunday 7.00pm-8.30pm Prayer Meeting Tuesday 12.00-1.30pm (free) Soup and Bible Study for those without paid work Tuesday 5:15-6:30 After school club (for under 16s) Wednesday 7.30pm-9.00pm Bible Study or Prayer Thursday 7.00pm-8.30pm Church youth club The above activities are the main means by which the Trust provides Public Benefit by way of “advancement of religion”. The Trust also provides some public benefit as detailed below in ancillary activities for advancing education, relieving poverty, meeting the needs of the disadvantaged, and promoting religious/ethnic harmony Other Involvements: Affiliated to Barnabas Fellowship of Churches (aka BFoC) (E&W 1071300). All CRB checks are routed through BFoC. 10% of income given towards the running of BFoC in N Ireland (will register under section 167) Contributions towards BFoC Emmaus Project in Israel for the “advancement of education” amongst disadvantaged Bedouin children. Provide Pastoral care and counselling upon request. Raise more than £480/year to support 2 overseas orphans in Burma and India via eg Adopt a child SC029685 "alleviation of poverty" Support a Zimbabwean national as a Pastor in Zimbabwe US$ 2,400/year Partner church with "Christians against Poverty" CC - 1097217 (E&W) & SC038776 (Scotland) to provide advice on avoiding debt. Collections for other charities such as Larne Food Bank, Prison Fellowship, Christmas shoebox. . | £49,816
