# Bereavement `SW102`

Bereavement is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](/data/tag_list/) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](/data/ukcat/SW) category.

990 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.49% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(bereave(ment|d)|grief|grieving|still-? ?birth|(loss of|lost) a (child|parent|baby|loved one|spouse|partner))\b`


Charities matching this regular expression will be excluded from the tag:

`(sick and (the )?bereaved)`


## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 238 | 0.29%
£10k - £100k | 314 | 0.48%
£100k - £250k | 152 | 0.79%
£250k - £500k | 69 | 0.76%
£500k - £1m | 36 | 0.62%
£1m - £10m | 68 | 0.86%
Over £10m | 10 | 0.54%
Total | 887 | 0.46%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 820 | 0.49%
oscr | 105 | 0.41%
ccni | 65 | 0.91%
Total | 990 | 0.49%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Sue Ryder</strong> [Charity number: [SC039578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039578)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are: 3.1 to provide or assist in the provision of care for persons suffering from any serious or permanent disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental.  3.2 to relieve the needs of those people potentially excluded from society by reason of old age, ill health (physical or mental), disability, poverty, or criminal history, and to assist their integration into society for the public benefit.  3.3 to advance the education of the public about the causes of disability, incapacity or illness, whether physical or mental, and the means of relieving those needs.  3.4 to relieve the mental and physical suffering of persons affected by bereavement or loss, including by the provision of counselling and support for such persons.  | £112,754,000
<strong>HOSPICE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1014851](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1014851)]<br> Hospice UK is the national charity working for those experiencing death, dying and bereavement. Our strategic goals underpin our programmes and aim to ensure hospice quality care is delivered in any setting; tackle inequality and widen access to hospice care;  build community capacity and resilience and empower a strong, dynamic and responsive hospice sector. | £109,132,000
<strong>Hospice UK</strong> [Charity number: [SC041112](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041112)]<br>Objects 3. The objects of the Charity are:  3.1 to facilitate and promote the relief, care and treatment of the sick, especially of the dying, and the support and care of their families and carers and of the bereaved  3.2 to facilitate and promote the charitable activities of Independent Hospices.  3.3 to provide or facilitate education and training for professionals and volunteers engaged in palliative care and increase awareness among the general public of the values, principles and practice of hospice and palliative care | £109,132,000
<strong>Down And Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £24,914,000
<strong>PILGRIMS HOSPICES IN EAST KENT</strong> [Charity number: [293968](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-293968)]<br>The charity runs three hospices providing specialist palliative care services to patients through inpatient and day care, clinics, support at home from teams of community nurses and a 24-hour helpline.  Families receive social, pastoral and bereavement support from teams of professionals at all three hospices. An education centre provides training and education for professionals and the public. | £20,388,000
<strong>ST HELENA HOSPICE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [280919](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-280919)]<br>Serving North Essex. Providing specialist palliative end of life care & bereavement services to patients, families and friends, advice & education to colleagues working in palliative care. Co-ordination of end of life services 24/7 including hosting an electronic end of life register. Education short courses & conferences. | £18,986,000
<strong>ST GILES HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [509014](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-509014)]<br>St Giles Hospice provides excellent palliative care and enables our communities to support each other in living the best life they can to the very end, focusing on what matters most to individuals, families and our community on issues relating to terminal illness, death, dying and loss. Services: IPU, Community Nursing, 24/7 Advice, Therapies/Clinics, Education, Bereavement Support & Physiotherapy | £13,676,551
<strong>ST GEMMA'S HOSPICE</strong> [Charity number: [1015941](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1015941)]<br>The palliative care, treatment or relief of people with active,progressive and advanced illness without regard to their means, culture, faith or belief .The relief of those who have experienced loss and bereavement through the provision of counselling, advice and support. The provision of education and training for professionals and volunteers engaged in palliative care. | £13,419,643
<strong>Derry Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI105256](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105256)]<br>The work of the priests of the Diocese is teaching the faith, the celebration of religious services and the pastoral care of all people with whom they come in to contact. The parishes within the Diocese reach out to the wider community and provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering. This is demonstrated by the role of the Parish Priest, parish committees, family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity supports which operate on a daily basis. Caring for the elderly and infirm, caring and supporting those who are disadvantaged, fundraising and collecting food and clothing for the homeless and disadvantaged in Northern Ireland, Ireland and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties and visiting and supporting schools all form part of the daily work of the charity and the benefits that are derived from this work include the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships with other faith denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. The parishes of the Diocese raise amounts of around £300,000 to £400,000 annually and contribute this to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity supporting communities in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and protect their human dignity. Missionaries frequently return from overseas to report to parishes on the work that they have been able to undertake as a result of fundraising in the Diocese. | £12,230,071
<strong>GREENWICH AND BEXLEY COMMUNITY HOSPICE LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1017406](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1017406)]<br>THE RELIEF OF PAIN AND SUFFERING AMONG THE ILL, THE PROVISION, MANAGEMENT AND MAINTENANCE OF A HOSPICE AND ASSOCIATED COMMUNITY AND OUTREACH SERVICES FOR PEOPLE WITH LIFE LIMITING ILLNESS AND THEIR FAMILIES AND FRIENDS, THE PROTECTION AND PRESERVATION OF THE HEALTH OF THOSE AFFECTED BY BEREAVEMENT AND THE ADVANCEMENT OF EDUCATION OF PROFESSIONALS AND THE PUBLIC IN THE RELIEF OF PAIN AND SUFFERING. | £10,578,145


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Oak Counselling Services Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI107323](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107323)]<br>Oak Counselling Services provides free counselling to those aged 16 and over, this is made possible through a team of qualified and student counsellors who all work on a voluntary basis. All counsellors, qualified and students are fully insured and registered with a recognised body, all counsellors must have supervision at the ratio of 1 hour to every 8 client hours, as per our policy, students also receive 1-1 meetings with an agency appointed mentor per month as well as 1-1 meetings with the mentor available on request. Within our counselling services we have the ability to offer specialist areas of therapy such as addiction, trauma, suicide prevention, self harm awareness and after care, domestic violence, historical and recent sexual violence, grief and bereavement. in an effort to allow clients to ease in and out of counselling, we also offer a range of alternative therapies carried out by a fully qualified and insured alternative therapist. access to this service is only via referral, referral forms are available on request from our charity shop, through email and in our main waiting room in the counselling service building. on receipt of a completed referral form, if possible, contact will be made with the potential client within 48 hours to arrange an assessment appointment with our counselling manager. during this assessment, a brief history will be taken along with the reason for referral, the client will then be referred to the most suitable counsellor. Oak counselling services runs a charity shop to raise funds to cover the cost of rent and utilities along with providing any money needed for the counselling service. the shop relies solely on donated goods. fundraising events will also be organised to help with funding the services in the future. | 
<strong>SUTTON IN ASHFIELD SPIRITUALIST CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1179003](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179003)]<br>The Church operates for the public benefit in that it provides facilities for religious worship, observance and practice freely and without charge to all members of the public without restriction;  it disseminates religious teaching, philosophy and information, administers spiritual healing, visits the sick and comforts the bereaved, not only for the benefit of existing adherents but also for all | £1,857
<strong>Life After Loss</strong> [Charity number: [NI104982](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-104982)]<br>Life After Loss is here to help anyone affected by the loss of a baby. We provide support and information to those who have been through the death of a baby at any stage of pregnancy, or early in life, for any reason. Our headquarters is in Northern Ireland, and many of our events and activities are also held in Northern Ireland. However we do carry out a substantial amount of work with Warrington Hospital, and are always looking for ways to expand our support network throughout the UK. Indeed, the support forum has given support to members from all across the UK and Worldwide. The organisation was founded in 2006, starting life as an online support forum for bereaved families. The forum is still an integral part of what we do, and is available 24 hrs a day, 7 days a week for grieving parents to read and post messages, giving and receiving support. In 2007, Life After Loss was granted Charitable Status by HMRC. We believe that by offering support and friendship to each other, parents whose lives have been devastated by the loss of a baby can begin to heal and to pick up the pieces of their broken lives. Life may never be the same, but slowly it can be rebuilt, eventually you can learn to smile again. | £764
<strong>THE BEREAVEMENT TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1008753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1008753)]<br>To give comfort and support to bereaved people. In September 2020 the trustees were obliged to accept that the charity had run its course following a review of its ability to maintain its activities. In October 2022 the accumulated funds were distributed in equal amounts to a number of registered charities in and around Nottinghamshire having a similar ethos and its bank accounts were closed | £52
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF HEYSHAM ST PETER WITH ST JAMES AND ST ANDREW</strong> [Charity number: [1130596](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1130596)]<br>Public Worship and Sacred Space open to all. Pastoral Work with sick, bereaved and all ages. Teaching by sermons, assemblies, courses and groups. Promoting the whole mission of the church with all age and ability groups. Supporting other charities in the UK and overseas. | £113,351
<strong>The Pat Finucane Centre Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [NI100720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-100720)]<br>- We provide support, advice and advocacy to families who have been bereaved as a result of the conflict in Ireland. - Networking with human rights NGOs and parliamentarians in Ireland and abroad. - Long-term involvement on a wide range of issues surrounding policing and the criminal justice system. Facilitating dialogue between the two communities in the North through private contacts, workshops and public meetings on potential truth processes etc. - The PFC is involved in a ‘critical engagement’ with the PSNI Legacy Investigations Branch and the Police Ombudsman. We strongly believe that the families who do decide to engage should not do so on their own and without support. The PFC also provides advocacy support to bereaved families engaging with the coronial service north and south of the border. - Conduct research & seek information through state agencies to inform casework and themes of the conflict. - Provide safe environment/location for families to meet with statutory agencies. - We have been involved in the Truth Recovery and Acknowledgement sub-group of the Healing Through Remembering Project, which is a creative initiative aimed at dealing the human rights abuses associated with the conflict. - Part of the Healing Through Remembering Stories Network to develop best practice guidelines in story-gathering -The PFC has been involved in regular round table meetings with other non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to discuss models for truth recovery and a mechanism to deal with the past. | £319,737
<strong>CHRIST CITY CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1117811](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1117811)]<br>Committed to spreading the Christian faith; strengthening families and marriages through Biblical teachings; combating loneliness and creating friendship among the elderly and socially marginalised; Beneficiaries find strength in challenging times; dilinquent teenagers have developed interest in learning & respect for British values. Bereaved families receive morally & financially support. | £20,885
<strong>Home-Start Causeway</strong> [Charity number: [NI105853](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105853)]<br>Home-Start volunteers help families facing isolation, the effects of post-natal illness, disability or mental health issues, bereavement, multiple births, poverty or financial difficulties, or a whole range of other challenges. After meeting with the family to discuss their specific needs, Home-Start will match the family to a volunteer. The help we give each family depends entirely on their circumstances, requirements and what they want help with. | £66,308
<strong>BUCKLAND AND HORRABRIDGE RELIEF IN NEED CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [275202](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-275202)]<br>Rent arrears/school trips for large families/flowers for sick & bereaved/vet bills/winter clothing for a vagrant/winter warmth for 80 year old lady/transport costs for single mother to visit dying mother at other end of the country. | £928
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF  ST PETERS CHURCH RAVENSHEAD</strong> [Charity number: [1131885](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1131885)]<br>Regular public worship to anyone. provision of sacred space for personal prayer & contemplation. teaching of Christianity thro' small groups. Taking of religous assemblies in Schools. Pastoral work i.e. visiting the sick  & bereaved. Promoting the whole mission of the Church thro provision of activities for senior citizens, parents and toddlers & others. Supporting Charities in the UK & abroad. | £166,513
