# Individual poverty `SW105`

Individual poverty is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

24,160 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 11.89% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(poverty|hardship|disadvantaged|deprived|poor|financial difficult(y|ies))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 7,885 | 11.09%
£10k - £100k | 7,172 | 10.21%
£100k - £250k | 2,661 | 11.94%
£250k - £500k | 1,462 | 13.41%
£1m - £10m | 1,311 | 14.40%
£500k - £1m | 992 | 14.44%
Over £10m | 344 | 15.41%
Total | 21,827 | 11.33%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 18,497 | 10.81%
oscr | 5,177 | 20.89%
ccni | 486 | 6.75%
Total | 24,160 | 11.89%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>SAVE THE CHILDREN INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1076822](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076822)]<br>Save the Children works in around 120 countries to deliver immediate and lasting change to children's lives. We program across all contexts to ensure all children survive, learn and are protected. Save the Children International and 29 member organisations make up Save the Children Association. Together in 2015 we reached 62 million children directly through our and our partners' work. | £1,103,536,563
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £345,552,000
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>OXFAM</strong> [Charity number: [202918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-202918)]<br>Oxfam's objects are to prevent and relieve poverty and protect the vulnerable anywhere in the world.  Oxfam furthers its objects through interlinked activities of humanitarian relief, development work and advocacy and campaigning.  Oxfam is an affiliate member of Oxfam International.  Details of Oxfam's mission and ways of working can be found at www.oxfam.org.uk | £339,366,903
<strong>Oxfam</strong> [Charity number: [SC039042](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039042)]<br>To prevent and relieve poverty and to protect the vulnerable, including through humanitarian intervention. . To advance sustainable development. To promote human rights and equality and diversity, in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. | £339,336,903
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>Salvation Army</strong> [Charity number: [SC009359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009359)]<br>The objects of the Army shall be the advancement of the Christian religion, as promulgated in the religious doctrines set out in Schedule 1 to this Act which are professed, believed and taught by the Army and, pursuant thereto,  the advancement of education,  the relief of poverty. and other charitable objects beneficial to society or the community of mankind as a whole.  | £338,297,000
<strong>The Shaw Trust Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC039856](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039856)]<br>The objects of the company are: (a) To relieve any person who is in need because of any disability or because of any other disadvantage resulting from unemployment, youth, age, financial hardship, ill-health or because they are offenders, ex-offenders or are at risk of offending. (b) The promotion of the health, equality and independence of disabled people. and (c) The prevention and relief of poverty. in particular by providing education, training, rehabilitation, support, employment opportunities and personal development opportunities. The company will be non-party in politics and non-sectarian in religion. | £315,754,000
<strong>THE SHAW TRUST LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [287785](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287785)]<br>Shaw Trust provides services to people who are disabled or otherwise disadvantaged, principally to help them find employment or to develop work and independence skills. | £315,754,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>IFTA WELFARE TRUST UK</strong> [Charity number: [1190869](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190869)]<br>We help the poor people of Pakistan covering their medical, education and daily living needs like providing them with clean waterIFTA Pakistan has various charitable projects which can been see on iftawelfaretrust.org. In the UK we will raise funds for IFTA Pakistan campaigns. We will be using online platforms and printed material to set target funds. Then people will donate as much as possible. | £47,369
<strong>The Right Honourable Lord Clarke's Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC042219](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042219)]<br>(a) for the establishment and operation of scholarships specifically for graduates meeting the following criteria:- (i) they have previously graduated from a Scottish University. (ii) they have been accepted to study Law as a second degree at the University of Glasgow. (iii) they can show a financial need. and (iv) they have a proven record of academic excellence. (b) the advancement of the Arts. (c) the advancement of medical research. (d) the prevention or relief of poverty. (e) the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. (f) the advancement of the following charitable organisations: (i) the Edinburgh International Festival (Scottish Charity Number SC004694), The Hub, Castlehill, Edinburgh EH1 2NE. (ii) the Marie Curie Cancer Care (Scottish Charity Number: SC038731) 89 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7TP. (iii) the Help the Hospices (Scottish Charity Number: SC041112) 34-44 Brittania Street, London WC1X 9JG. (iv) the Stroke Association (Scottish Charity Number: SC037789) Stroke House, 240 City Road, London EC1V 2PR. (v) the Scottish Opera (Scottish Charity Number: SC019787) 39 Elmbank Crescent, Glasgow G2 4PT. (vi) the Scottish Catholic International Aid Fund (Scottish Charity Number: SC012302) 19 Waterloo Street, Glasgow G2 6AH. (vii) the Little Sisters of the Poor (Scottish Charity Number: SC008019) 43 Gilmore Place, Edinburgh EH3 9NG. (viii) the Royal Opera House (Charity Number: 211775) Covent Garden, London WC2E 9DD. and (ix) the University of Glasgow (Scottish Charity Number: SC004401) Directorate, Finance Office, Gilbert Scott Building, University Avenue, Glasgow G12 8QQ. and with a declaration that the Trustees shall hold the Trust Fund for such of the Charitable Purposes only as are within the meaning of charitable purposes in terms of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 as amended and superseded from time to time which are also regarded as charitable | £3,753
<strong>NEW LIFE CHURCH (REDCAR)</strong> [Charity number: [1178511](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178511)]<br>To make available the facilities of the Church to the local community, and to advance the Christian faith through the activities of the Church. To help relieve sickness and financial hardship, and to promote and preserve good health by provision of funds, goods and services including counselling and support. To advance education through biblical teaching and instruction. | £88,329
<strong>Claypotts Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC037283](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037283)]<br>(1) To advance the Christian religion by proclaiming the Gospel of the sovereign grace of God who, through Jesus Christ his Son, freely offers to all upon repentance and faith, the forgiveness of sins, renewal by the Holy Spirit, and eternal life.  (2) In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, to help people of any religious faith or none, and, in particular, to bring comfort to those deprived of family life and love through bereavement or through being abandoned, to educate those whose ignorance leads to a life-style which endangers their health, to care for the sick, and to help those deprived of opportunity through lack of education. | £22,632
<strong>Gibson Graham Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC030808](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC030808)]<br>The benefit of such cultural, educational, religious or welfare funds, societies, organisations  and/or schemes as are charities at law (anyone or all of such funds, societies,  organisations and schemes being individually or collectively referred to in this deed as  II charities '), or the relief of poverty in Scotland or other parts of the United Kingdom | £26,197
<strong>CREATIVETRAIL CHARITY</strong> [Charity number: [1214068](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1214068)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:TO ADVANCE EDUCATION IN AND APPRECIATION OF THE ARTS, AND HERITAGE CRAFTS, REFLECTING OR CELEBRATING CULTURAL HERITAGE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LEATHERWORK, PRINTMAKING, BOOKBINDING, TEXTILE ART, CERAMICS, DIGITAL ILLUSTRATION, ANIMATION, FILMMAKING, PHOTOGRAPHY MASK-MAKING AND CANVAS PAINTING, FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFITS IN SUCH PARTS OF ENGLAND AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL FROM TIME TO TIME DETERMINE, IN PARTICULAR BY:(A) PROVIDING AN INNOVATIVE MOBILE ARTS EDUCATION UNIT DESIGNED TO ADDRESS INEQUALITIES IN ARTS EDUCATION FOR SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS AGED 11-18 ACROSS ENGLAND THROUGH THE PROVISION OF HIGH-QUALITY CREATIVE EDUCATIONAL WORKSHOPS WHICH ENABLE PARTICIPANTS TO ACCESS RESOURCES, MATERIALS, TEACHING AND MENTORING THAT NURTURES THEIR ARTISTIC AND ACADEMIC GROWTH AND EMPHASISES THE RELEVANCE OF ARTS IN CAREER DEVELOPMENT;(B) EDUCATING TEACHERS ON INCORPORATING CREATIVE ARTISTIC PRACTICES INTO NATIONAL CURRICULUM SUBJECTS;(C) OFFERING RESIDENCIES TO ARTISTS TO DEVELOP AND DELIVER EDUCATIONAL WORKSHOPS’ DEVELOP THEIR OWN CREATIVE PRACTICE AND CREATE WORK OF ARTISTIC MERIT FOR PUBLIC DISPLAY;(D) HOSTING WORKSHOPS, EVENTS AND EXHIBITIONS OF THE WORK OF STUDENTS AND ARTISTS IN PUBLIC SPACES SUCH AS SCHOOLS, LIBRARIES, PARKS AND COMMUNITY CENTRES AND ENCOURAGING PEOPLE OF ALL AGES IN ECONOMICALLY AND SOCIALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES WHO LACK ACCESS TO THE ARTS TO ENGAGE WITH ARTS PROJECTS IN AN INTERACTIVE WAY;(F) UNDERTAKING RESEARCH, THE USEFUL RESULTS OF WHICH WILL BE PUBLISHED, INTO THE VALUE OF ARTS AND CRAFTS EDUCATION AND MAKING ARTS EDUCATION MORE ACCESSIBLE TO SOCIALLY AND ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED COMMUNITIES. | 
<strong>RIVERS INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1187466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1187466)]<br>The charity seeks to advance the Christian faith in accordance with the statement of beliefs. The charity seeks to demonstrate this through prayer, support,  relieving hardship and promoting and preserving good health. The vision of the charity is  Rebuilding Communities , Reviving Spiritually, Restoring Dignity. | £43,614
<strong>DRAMA EXPRESSIONS FOR CHILDREN</strong> [Charity number: [1145805](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1145805)]<br>The provision of facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation for girls who are in need of such provision because of their youth, age, infirmity, poverty, or social and economic circumstances and with the objects of improving conditions of life. | £276,129
<strong>LOUTH AND DISTRICT HELP FOR HOMELESS</strong> [Charity number: [1040466](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1040466)]<br>The relief of poverty of the inhabitants of Louth and District by the provision of financial assistance to homeless people in need, irrespective of age, race, gender, sexuality, disability or religious conviction. | £4,185
<strong>FENI MOHIUSSUNNAH TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1161795](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161795)]<br>THE RELIEF OF POVERTY, SICKNESS, HARDSHIP AND DISTRESS AMONGST PEOPLE LIVING IN THE FENI DISTRICT OF BANGLADESH, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY CHILDREN INCLUDING ORPHANS AND STREET CHILDREN AND THEIR FAMILIES BY THE PROVISION OF SUCH GOODS AND AS THE TRUSTEES SHALL THINK FIT. | £32,045
