# Clothes `SW103`

Clothes is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

1,560 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.77% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(cloth(es|ing))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 521 | 0.73%
£10k - £100k | 528 | 0.75%
£100k - £250k | 151 | 0.68%
£250k - £500k | 79 | 0.73%
£500k - £1m | 37 | 0.55%
£1m - £10m | 32 | 0.36%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.14%
Total | 1,351 | 0.70%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,345 | 0.79%
oscr | 135 | 0.55%
ccni | 80 | 1.11%
Total | 1,560 | 0.77%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Down and Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £20,986,000
<strong>Derry Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI105256](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105256)]<br>The work of the priests of the Diocese is teaching the faith, the celebration of religious services and the pastoral care of all people with whom they come in to contact. The parishes within the Diocese reach out to the wider community and provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering. This is demonstrated by the role of the Parish Priest, parish committees, family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity supports which operate on a daily basis. Caring for the elderly and infirm, caring and supporting those who are disadvantaged, fundraising and collecting food and clothing for the homeless and disadvantaged in Northern Ireland, Ireland and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties and visiting and supporting schools all form part of the daily work of the charity and the benefits that are derived from this work include the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships with other faith denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. The parishes of the Diocese raise amounts of around £300,000 to £400,000 annually and contribute this to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity supporting communities in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and protect their human dignity. Missionaries frequently return from overseas to report to parishes on the work that they have been able to undertake as a result of fundraising in the Diocese. | £15,646,837
<strong>GLOBAL RELIEF TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1191793](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1191793)]<br>Global Relief Trust (GRT) provides humanitarian aid and relief, such as food, water, clothing, shelter, medical equipment, education as well as developing sustainable projects to the poor and needy in; Bangladesh, Yemen, Occupied Palestinian Territories , Syria, Lebanon, Turkiye, Pakistan, Kashmir, Malawi, Uganda and Rohingya. | £10,909,874
<strong>TEXTILE REUSE AND INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [297489](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-297489)]<br>TRAID is an environmental and poverty relief charity. TRAID reduces landfill through; the provision of textile recycling facilities, its charity shops and upcycled clothing. Funds raised go to environmental and textile related international development projects and TRAID's education programmes developed to gain greater recycling participation and empathy with the issues surrounding global poverty. | £9,324,811
<strong>WildHearts Foundation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC037072](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037072)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are:  The relief of poverty, suffering and distress of children and families within Africa, Latin America, Europe and Asia (the 'area of benefit') by providing or assisting in the provision of food, clothing, water, accommodation and other humanitarian aid to those in such need, or by such other exclusively charitable means as the Company shall from time to time determine so as to improve the conditions of life of such persons.  The advancement of education of children and young people in the area of benefit and in addition North America and Oceania by providing or assisting in the provision of education materials and facilities and by providing or assisting in the provision of activities which help or inspire them to develop confidence, self esteem, the ability to work in a team and communication, problem solving and all such other skills that will foster their personal, psychological and emotional development and their ability to interact with others and build a better future for themselves.  The advancement of health and welfare of children and families in the area of benefit by providing or assisting in the provision of aid such as medical supplies and training and by providing or assisting in the provision of activities, programmes and projects that foster positive attitudes towards health, fitness, diet, and exercise.  The advancement of community development in the area of benefit by providing or assisting in the provision of projects and facilities that address the decline in social cohesion or that facilitate interactions between members of the community and enable individuals to learn more about each other and build stronger, sustainable relationships and that address the marginalisation of individuals due to factors such as disability, ethnicity or age.  The advancement of public participation in sport in the area of benefit by providing or assisting in the provision of sporting projects, opportunities and activities that encourage people to adopt healthy, active lifestyles whilst promoting the power of sport as a means of engaging with others.  Maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity. | £5,722,851
<strong>Talbot Association Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC008277](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008277)]<br>The objects for which the Company is established are to provide shelter, sustenance, clothing, care, counselling and other services and support to persons in need and to those ends to establish, manage and operate assessment rehabilitation centres, to provide residential long term care for the elderly, to provide supported tenancies and other residential projects for the homeless and to provide counselling for alcohol and other substance abuse and generally to do any other act or provide any other service conducive or ancillary to the foregoing, provided that all the objects of the Company shall be exclusively Charitable. | £5,540,093
<strong>THE VEGAN SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [279228](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-279228)]<br>THE VEGAN SOCIETY PROMOTES A WAY OF LIFE THAT SEEKS TO AVOID, AS FAR AS IS POSSIBLE AND PRACTICABLE, ALL FORMS OF EXPLOITATION OF, AND CRUELTY TO, ANIMALS FOR FOOD, CLOTHING OR ANY OTHER PURPOSE.IT IS AN EDUCATION CHARITY PROVIDING INFORMATION AND SUPPORT THROUGH PUBLICATIONS, TALKS, INTERVIEWS, WEBSITES AND SOCIAL MEDIA. THE SOCIETY ADVOCATES FOR ALL, INCLUDING THOSE IN VULNERABLE SITUATIONS. | £4,890,545
<strong>Belhaven Hill School Trust Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC007118](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007118)]<br>The objects for which the Trust is established are:   (a) To acquire, purchase, erect, lease, maintain, manage, develop and carry on in Scotland, or elsewhere in the United Kingdom, schools for boys and girls and to promote education generally and in particular the education of boys and girls.  (b) To acquire and take over and manage and carry on and develop the school known as Belhaven Hill, Dunbar, East Lothian, and all or any of the assets and liabilities of the proprietors of the school in connection therewith and with a view thereto to enter into an agreement with William Lawrence Vernon Caldwell and Keith Martin Jones, and to carry the same into effect with or without modification.  (c) To provide facilities for systematic education, instruction and study in various branches of knowledge, including classical, linguistic, historical, mathematical, scientific, literary, artistic, musical and other cognate subjects. and to employ Headmasters, Lecturers, Teachers and others for giving lectures, demonstrations, instruction and teaching on such subjects.  (d) To grant and establish or join or concur in the granting and establishment of prizes, exhibitions, scholarships, bursaries, fellowships, lectureships, professorships, or others connected with any School owned or managed by the Trust. to make payments of or towards the expenses of pupils or scholars by way of travelling grants or grants for research or otherwise. and to pay for or provide board and maintenance for pupils or scholars or other persons attending Belhaven Hill School or other similar Institution or other classes or lectures and to supply them with clothing, uniform, equipment, books, light, heat, medical attention and other necessaries or conveniences upon such terms, whether gratuitously or otherwise, as may seem expedient. - -  (e) To enter into arrangements or to act in conjunction with Educational Authorities, Associations, Institutions or others, if thought expedient for the effectual attainment of the objects for which the Trust is established.  MAXIMUM TEXT REACHED. Please contact charity to request copy of the constitution'         | £4,804,978
<strong>SABA RELIEF & DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1150360](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1150360)]<br>We are working to alleviate poverty in Yemen by helping the poor and needy by distributing food, water, clothing, providing education facilities and giving financial aid and sponsoring projects. | £4,610,460
<strong>Dromore Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI105046](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-105046)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes into contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, and the family ministry. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools, all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships with other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed £300K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity. | £4,321,676


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>OROKO CULTURAL AND DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1211664](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1211664)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY TO INTERNALLY DISPLACED COMMUNITIES IN NDIAN AND MEME DIVISIONS OF THE SOUTH WEST REGION OF CAMEROON DUE TO THE ONGOING POLITICAL CRISIS IN THE COUNTRY BY:- THE PROVISION OF ITEMS SUCH AS FURNITURE, BEDDING, CLOTHING, FOOD, FUEL, FRIDGES ETC- THE PROVISION OF FACILITIES SUCH AS THE SUPPLY OF BOOKS TO INTERNALLY DISPLACED CHILDREN, PAYMENTS OF FEES, OTHER EXPENSES CONNECTED WITH VOCATIONAL TRAINING, LANGUAGE, LITERACY, NUMERICAL OR TECHNICAL SKILLS, TRAINING INTENDED TO BRING THE QUALITY OF LIFE OF THE BENEFICIARIES TO A REASONABLE STANDARD.- THE CREATION OF BOREHOLES IN COMMUNITIES WITH POOR DRINKING WATER- THE SUPPLY OF HOSPITAL BEDS, MATTRESSES AND OTHER BASIC MEDICAL EQUIPMENTS TO RURAL HEALTH CENTRES WITH NO ADEQUATE FACILITIES.- ELECTRIFICATION OF RURAL COMMUNITIES THROUGH THE PROVISION OF SOLAR BULBS AND PANELS. | 
<strong>ASHTON SCHOOLS FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [307526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-307526)]<br>Grants for students living within the Dunstable area for educational costs, including equpiment and clothing.Annual grant to Manshead, Ashton Middle, and Ashton Lower Schools in Dunstable. | £35,634
<strong>OPERATION HOPE: EDUCATION PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1067717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1067717)]<br>Poverty alleviation - through direct intervention in the lives of the vulnerable by providing food and clothing and shelter.Community empowerment - providing and facilitating focus groups for mobilisation of deprived communities towards self help. Providing youth education and training, and skills development and helping communities build and improve educational infrastructure. | £9,220
<strong>Link Education International</strong> [Charity number: [SC045011](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045011)]<br>The objects for which the Association is established are, either acting alone or in association with others and in such manner as the Association shall determine:- (1) To assist in the provision and/or improvement and/or advancement of education in Africa. (2) To relieve poverty, distress and suffering (including starvation, sickness or any physical disability or affliction) in any part of the world, whether arising as a result of drought, earthquake, flood or other natural phenomena or by reason of social and economic conditions and in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing, for that purpose:- (a) to provide food, healing, clothing, shelter and training and education and to undertake or assist in work calculated to achieve that purpose. (b) to promote, and to disseminate the results of, research into social, economic and political conditions and medical, nutritional and agricultural matters related to the relief of such poverty. distress and suffering. and (c) to undertake projects which will advance the understanding among the public and governments both in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world of such poverty, distress and suffering.  | £3,537,144
<strong>St Loe's, Seys and Bridges Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [311753](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-311753)]<br>Providing books for the benefit of pupils in Woodchester and AmberleyAwarding Exhibitions to beneficiaries attending colleges, universities etcProviding financial assistance, clothes, tools etc to beneficiaries leaving schools etcProviding Financial assistance for extra curricula activities such as music | £7,799
<strong>THE CROSSROADS PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [1079071](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079071)]<br>The Crossroads Shop sells donated clothing, books and household goods at low affordable prices as a service to our community. The Crossroads Centre provides rentfree accommodation for recognised agencies to give free advice and information at weekly outreach sessions. Grants are distributed quarterly to local organisations and any individuals working to help others. | £133,476
<strong>The Guild Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC052146](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052146)]<br>4. The organisation's purposes are:  4.1. We aim to advance the education of our community in Dumfries and the wider region, in the fields of arts, creative industry, food and nutrition. We will achieve this by providing a wide range of learning opportunities which will improve employability and confidence through the development of skills. providing pathways to qualifications. and by offering access to training, volunteering and employment activities.  4.2. We aim to advance the health and wellbeing of our local population through the provision of opportunities which will increase their self-confidence, make them feel less isolated, learn skills which are calming and help form friendship groups.  All of this in turn will improve mental wellbeing. We will do this by running a wide variety of workshops for both adults and young people.  These will focus on increasing creative skills in art, sewing, knitting, cooking and other craft activities such as pottery, jewellery making, floristry. We will also run social events such as book clubs, local interest speakers, art, craft and cooking demonstrations, art exhibitions, market festivals.  Attendees will find companionship, may develop a new hobby and generally feel connected to a community, interest or event.   4.3. We will advance environmental protection or improvement by the promotion of environmental sustainability, through repair, reuse, reclamation, recycling and use of surplus and leftover materials to minimise waste. We will achieve this by through Reuse, Recycle and Upcycle hands on workshops, demonstrations and talks from experts on how to live more sustainably.  Sewing, repairing and craft classes to make or repurpose clothing to minimise waste.  Regular, small appliance and furniture repair clinics. We will also run 'zero waste'  cooking classes/demonstration to increase knowledge of minimal waste, using up leftover ingredients or using less expensive/less popular food to reduce food waste  4.4. We will advance citizenship and community development by providing, and promoting the participation in, community-led activities in Dumfries and the wider region. We will achieve this through partnership and 3 community engagement, and the development of a creative space which works with the community to encourage participation and civic pride.    - We will advance arts and culture through the provision of creative opportunities and the promotion of the arts in our community in Dumfries and the wider region. We will achieve this through a range of activities such as equipment hire for example sewing machines, printing equipment, reduced cost space in our retail space and markets for start up businesses, business Workshops to support fledgling creative businesses and free exhibitions and events to showcase local talent and allow the general public to enjoy art and creativity and be inspired   4.5. We will provide recreational facilities through the development of flexible spaces which offers a comprehensive programme of activities which meets the diverse needs of all members of our community. We will achieve this by working with partners to ensure our spaces are accessible and encourage engagement and participation from vulnerable or marginalised groups.   | 
<strong>KENYA CHILDREN CENTRES</strong> [Charity number: [1103868](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103868)]<br>Kenya Children Centres cares for 2,000 poor orphaned and vulnerable children at our 8 feeding centres in slum villages, in families in the community and at our homes for abandoned babies and children. Our outreach projects support destitute families with education, counselling, micro-business grants, clothing and personal hygiene items. | £141,770
<strong>MANNAS EMPOWERMENT MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1179966](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1179966)]<br>Mannas Empowerment Ministries is dedicated to fulfilling its mission through a diverse range of religious activities and charitable endeavours, aimed at fostering community well-being, spiritual growth, and support for the underprivileged. We offers worship, education, and aid for the needy through food, clothing, and support services, fostering community well-being and spiritual growth. | £10,820
<strong>THE PARKS VOLUNTEER RESOURCE AND RETAIL OUTLET</strong> [Charity number: [1076529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1076529)]<br>Provide clothing, household goods, bric a brac and resources, including meeting space, at affordable prices. Initially serving the local area. Empowering and working with local organisations, businesses and groups through knowledge sharing, volunteering and skill building. Providing a facility to alleviate isolation and loneliness across genders, age, abilities and ethnicities. | £90,354
