# Loneliness `SW106`

Loneliness is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

3,009 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 1.49% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(loneliness|befriending|social(ly)? (deprivation|isolat(ion|ed)|exclu(sion|ded)|contact)|lonely|isolation)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 682 | 0.91%
£10k - £100k | 979 | 1.43%
£100k - £250k | 433 | 2.08%
£250k - £500k | 253 | 2.56%
£500k - £1m | 137 | 2.22%
£1m - £10m | 141 | 1.66%
Over £10m | 18 | 0.88%
Total | 2,643 | 1.38%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 2,122 | 1.25%
oscr | 618 | 2.48%
ccni | 269 | 3.74%
Total | 3,009 | 1.49%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £284,264,901
<strong>Culture and Sport Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC037844](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037844)]<br>4.1 	To advance the arts, heritage, culture and science. 4.2 	To advance education. 4.3 	To advance public participation in sport which involves physical skill and exertion. 4.4 	To advance health. 4.5 	To promote civic responsibility, volunteering, the voluntary sector and/or the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. 4.6 	To provide recreational facilities, and organise recreational activities, where such facilities/activities are available to members of the public at large with the object of improving their conditions of life. 4.7 	To relieve those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. 4.8 	To advance citizenship and community development (including urban regeneration) by harnessing the cultural and leisure assets of Glasgow, the contribution made by activities in furtherance of paragraphs 4.1 to 4.7, and a range of other measures, to increase vibrancy and promote positive perceptions of Glasgow as a place to work, live, study play, visit and invest - in a common effort with other public, private and third sector partners to address issues of social, economic and physical deprivation across the City of Glasgow, including health inequalities, social exclusion and unemployment. 4.9 	To advance such similar charitable purposes as the directors may consider appropriate from time to time.  through the provision of services (including those entrusted to it by Glasgow City Council) which contribute to advancing well-being (primarily the wellbeing of residents of Glasgow) including (i) the operation, management and development of museums, art galleries and other facilities which provide public access to collections of works of art, antiquities and objects of scientific interest. (ii) the development and delivery of arts and cultural activities and events, artistic programmes, scientific/research programmes and educational projects. (iii) the operation, management and development of libraries and the provision of library and archive services. (iv) the operation, management and development of indoor and outdoor sports facilities (including arrangements to facilitate access to such facilities by those on lower incomes or having special needs and to encourage wider participation in healthy exercise).(maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity)  | £146,242,000
<strong>DOGS TRUST LEGACY</strong> [Charity number: [227523](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-227523)]<br>Dogs Trust operates a network of rehoming centres across the UK; each provides dog accomodation, puppy houses, isolation blocks and treatment rooms.Dogs Trust provides financial assistance to allow owners in genuine need to have their dogs neutered through participating veterinary practices.Dogs Trust provides dog training and educational material on responsible dog ownership. | £124,598,892
<strong>AGE UK</strong> [Charity number: [1128267](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128267)]<br>Age UK aims to create a world where older people can live their lives free from poverty, isolation and neglect.  It raises awareness of issues affecting older people in the UK and overseas, researches and campaigns for changes in policy and practice, and offers practical support to disadvantaged older people.  It is funded by individuals, companies and trusts. | £123,225,000
<strong>ALZHEIMER'S SOCIETY</strong> [Charity number: [296645](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-296645)]<br>Alzheimer's Society staff and volunteers provide services to people affected by dementia, including day care and home care, support and befriending services across England, Wales, Guernsey, Isle of Man and Northern Ireland. We provide information and training, and every year we invest in research. We campaign for the rights of people with dementia and those who care for them. | £118,056,000
<strong>THE SINGLE HOMELESS PROJECT</strong> [Charity number: [287779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-287779)]<br>SHP is a London-based charity that works to prevent homelessness and help vulnerable and socially excluded people to transform their lives. We do this by providing support and accommodation, promoting wellbeing, enhancing opportunity, and being a voice for change. Our services are located across 20 London boroughs. | £38,897,038
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £31,275,010
<strong>CLARION FUTURES</strong> [Charity number: [1135056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135056)]<br>The objects of the Charity are to develop the capacity and skills of the members of any socially and economically disadvantaged community so that they are better able to participate more fully in society; the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship and to promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded. | £26,005,000
<strong>FRIENDS OF THE ELDERLY</strong> [Charity number: [226064](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226064)]<br>The charity offers residential, nursing and dementia care to older people in care homes on nine sites across England. We operate day care centres and a free-to-access grants service for individuals, and work to combat the devastating effects of loneliness among older people. Our vision is for a society in which all older people have the opportunity to live fulfilled lives. | £21,841,000
<strong>Community Lifestyles Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC028041](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC028041)]<br>The Charity’s objects are:  To provide services which support disabled people to live in the community as full citizens with the same rights and opportunities as others.   Services shall include (but may not be limited to):   •	The provision of flexible, person centred social care support for daily living activities   •	Creating, facilitating and supporting leisure, learning and employment activities   •	Promoting, building and encouraging relationships and peer support that reduce social isolation  | £19,389,065


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BE HUMAN KIND LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1204305](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204305)]<br>4. THE OBJECTS OF THE CHARITY ARE TO:4.1 THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED BY REASON OF FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, ILL HEALTH, PARTICULARLY DEMENTIA, OR THROUGH OLD AGE THROUGH THE OPERATION OF A SOUP KITCHEN; AND4.2 TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN BILLERICAY AND ITS SURROUNDING AREAS BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE OBJECTS, ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OR MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH, OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL) AND IN PARTICULAR, THOSE LIVING WITH DEMENTIA AND THEIR CARERS WHO WILL HAVE REDUCED OR LIMITED OPPORTUNITIES FOR SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT.IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY, THE OBJECTS SHALL BE ADVANCED BY:4.3.1 PROVIDING A LOCAL NETWORK GROUP THAT ENCOURAGES AND ENABLES THOSE WHO ARE LIVING WITH DEMENTIA AND THEIR CARERS TO PARTICIPATE MORE EFFECTIVELY WITH THE WIDER COMMUNITY;4.3.2 PROVIDING WORKSHOPS, FORUMS, ADVOCACY AND GENERAL SUPPORT; AND4.3.3 SOCIAL AND RECREATIONAL EVENTS INVOLVING THE LOCAL COMMUNITY.  | 
<strong>INDIAN ASSOCIATION OF HARROW</strong> [Charity number: [1060447](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1060447)]<br>Provides club facilities for socially isolated elderly immigrants from India, living in Harrow & surrounding boroughs. Provides non-religious community facilities where elderly people can meet on a regular basis to socialise and participate in activities such as physical activity programmes, talks & discussions on health related topics which promote better health and wellbeing. | £14,166
<strong>Pillar of Hope</strong> [Charity number: [SC052720](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052720)]<br>4 The organization's purposes are: The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages by 4.1 The advancement of promotion of public health of those in need due to age, ill-health, ill health-related disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages. By continuing to create programmes that increase disease awareness, improve health literacy, and empower patients to better manage their health. Our work is delivered through sustainable healthcare awareness programs that are built upon the principles of health equity, transparency, and partnership, working with other non-profit organizations, associations, and societies from around Scotland.   4.1.1 The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, or other disadvantages as a result of being disadvantaged more than others through the provision of practical assistance or support for vulnerable elderly people facing isolation and loneliness due to medical challenges such as Diabetes, and mental health Through providing befriending services as well as signpost our service users to advice helplines, condition specialists, information resources, courses to help them manage their condition, support groups and online forums, practical aids or just someone to talk to. in Scotland and overseas to reduce or eliminate the disadvantages.  4.1.2 The advancement of community development through supporting disadvantaged and vulnerable persons by providing friendship and practical advice, supporting older people to transform their lives, through one-to-one support, well-being courses, community groups, and supported physical activity, to help them make new friends regardless of challenges faced. This will encourage them to come out and socialize with each other while overcoming barriers to actively participate and promote resilience and positive well-being.  . 4.1 Advancement of education by providing information, training, guidance, and support services through hosting events, including in partnership with other organizations, in order to 4.1.1 promote a better understanding of the importance of leading healthy lifestyles to prevent their health conditions deteriorate. Become more informed about one's health complications, and management strategies 4.1.2 create better awareness and understanding of their social and health care rights, and combat prejudice towards individuals with such experience 4.1.3 promote social inclusion for the benefit of adults with long-term illness and prevent them from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those that are socially excluded and assisting them to integrate into society.  4.1.4 Promote maintaining manageable health that will not deteriorate very fast into crisis and be able to live on his or her own in the community. When this happens, they end up in the hospital or nursing care home or even die.  4.1.5 provide public health management information and enlightenment to many vulnerable older people with health issues in Scotland and overseas. The lack of opportunities to access regular social and health management information is fast becoming a crisis in Scotland and worst in Africa. It is dooming a generation of elderly people especially sick older people to a life of misery, uncertainty, agony, and hopelessness. | 
<strong>LEARN ORG UK LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1110670](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110670)]<br>To help tackle current community issues (Digital Divide, Integration, Isolation, Environment, Health & Well Being, Youth (NEET) & Unemployment) in areas of deprivation. Reaching out to the 'hard to reach' communities and those facing exclusion or barriers (BME communities, Women & Girls, & Youth) by creating, developing, and delivering innovative learning, social & Enterprise projects. | £35,070
<strong>THE PERSIAN HOME</strong> [Charity number: [1166010](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1166010)]<br>THE PROMOTION OF SOCIAL INCLUSION, FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT AMONG PEOPLE WHO ARE REFUGEES AND ASYLUM SEEKERS IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY THOSE OF AN IRANIAN ORIGIN AND THEIR FAMILIES RESIDENT IN THE UNITED KINGDOM WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED ON THE GROUNDS OF THEIR SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC POSITION, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY PROVIDING EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE AND IN V | 
<strong>AGE CONCERN SOUTHEND-ON-SEA CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1160916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160916)]<br>Age Concern Southend-on-Sea provides a face-to-face friendship/befriending service, telephone befriending, transport for older people to medical appointments, clubs, shops etc., a handyman service, wheelchair hire and a hearing aid battery exchange. It also runs a weekly community club and fundraising events and issues a local services directory and newsletter. | £326,792
<strong>Dundee Mental Health Cairn Fowk</strong> [Charity number: [SC044807](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC044807)]<br>The organisation?s purposes are the relief of those in need by reason of disadvantage through social and emotional isolation and stigma as a carer of someone with a mental illness, by providing the opportunity to take part in social outings and respite activities/breaks to support their wellbeing | £2,176
<strong>DONATE IT CHARITABLE ORGANISATION</strong> [Charity number: [1208597](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208597)]<br>THE RELIEF OF POVERTY AND FINANCIAL HARDSHIP FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PROVIDING REFURBISHED DIGITAL DEVICES TO ENABLE ACCESS TO THE INTERNET.TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY THROUGH THE PROVISION OF REFURBISHED DIGITAL DEVICES TO ENABLE THEM TO ACCESS THE INTERNET.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS PEOPLE WHO ARE EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; OR OTHER SOCIAL OR ECONOMIC DISADVANTAGE. | 
<strong>ILLUMINE US</strong> [Charity number: [1202287](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202287)]<br>TO RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF INDIVIDUALS EXPERIENCING DISADVANTAGE BY REASON OF THEIR YOUTH, AGE, INFIRMITY OR DISABILITY AND ISOLATION BY THE PROVISION OF A SOCIAL GROUP TO DELIVER RECREATIONAL AND LEISURE TIME ACTIVITIES IN THE INTEREST OF SOCIAL WELFARE DESIGNED TO IMPROVE THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE. | 
<strong>ARTY PARTY LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1142517](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142517)]<br>Arty Party in an independent arts organisation that supports people with learning and/or physical disabilities, living in Telford and Shropshire, to make art.  It provides arts training and work experience programmes, reduces social isolation through creative social activities and increases integration within the wider community through exhibitions, digital media, performance and social events. | £80,587
