# Benevolent Society `SW101`

Benevolent Society is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

1,455 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.72% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(benevolent (society|funds?|association))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,018 | 1.38%
£10k - £100k | 292 | 0.42%
£100k - £250k | 54 | 0.26%
£250k - £500k | 22 | 0.22%
£500k - £1m | 14 | 0.22%
£1m - £10m | 41 | 0.47%
Over £10m | 8 | 0.38%
Total | 1,449 | 0.76%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,290 | 0.76%
oscr | 152 | 0.62%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 1,455 | 0.72%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Ben - Motor and Allied Trades Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039842](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039842)]<br>3.1 The Objects of the Charity are the prevention and relief of distress, sickness and poor health (whether mental or physical) and financial hardship by the provision of health and wellbeing services including advice, financial support and grants, health and wellness training, and information and literature  3.1.1 primarily to those persons who are resident in the Area of Benefit (defined below). and  3.1.2 who are working or who have worked in a qualifying trade of industry (defined below). or   3.1.3 who are close dependants (defined below) of any person who satisfies the criteria in articles 3.1.2 and 3.1.3.  and persons who fall within the criteria in articles 3.1.1, 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 are the Primary beneficiaries  3.1.4 and otherwise for the benefit of any persons who are not Primary Beneficiaries, but who are resident in the Area of Benefit  For the purposes of these objects:  3.2 the Area of Benefit shall mean England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland  3.3 a qualifying trade or industry shall mean motor engineering and allied trades and industries, including any trade business occupation profession or association which provides financial, insurance or other services or which originates or publishes material relating to those trades or industries or whose activities or any of them are ancillary to or connected with those trades or industries. The term ‘motor, engineering and allied trades and industries’ shall include any individual or body engaged in the manufacture, sale, repair or service of commercial vehicles, garage and service equipment, motor cars and coaches, motor bicycles, lubricants or propulsion fuel for any of them and the component parts of any of them or, in the case of an individual or body only partly so engaged, only those engaged solely in those activities. and  3.4 a close dependant shall mean an individual who relies on a person who satisfies the criteria in articles 3.1.1 and 3.1.2 for financial or other support and includes the spouse or partner, parent, child, sibling, grandparent or grandchild (by blood or marriage) of that person.   | £20,533,000
<strong>BEN - MOTOR AND ALLIED TRADES BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [297877](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-297877)]<br>BEN provides financial support and facilities to people and their close dependants, resident in the UK or the Republic of Ireland, who are working or have worked in a qualifying trade or industry.BEN currently operates Welfare Offices in Ascot, Birmingham, Northern England and Scotland; Nursing and Residential Centres in Ascot, Rugby, and Berwick-upon-Tweed; Day Care Centre in Coventry. | £20,533,000
<strong>THE ROYAL AIR FORCE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1081009](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081009)]<br>(a) Providing relief and assistance to past and present members of the Royal Air Force and their dependants who are in need as a result of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise.(b) enhancing the morale and well being of serving members of the Royal Air Force(c)Maintaining the RAF war memorial on the Victoria embankment, London. | £19,003,000
<strong>The Royal Air Force Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC038109](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC038109)]<br>(a) the maintenance, upkeep and repair of the War Memorial known as the RAF Memorial situated at the Victoria Embankment, London. and b) The relief and assistance by all available means of all or any of thc following classes of beneficiaries who are in need of such relief or assistance by reason of poverty, disability, sickness, infirmity or otherwise, namely:- all persons of all ranks who are or have or shall have been at any time or shall be at any time members of the Royal Air Force, the Royal I Auxiliary Air Force, the Royal Air Force Reserves, the Women's I Royal Air Force or the Air Force or Auxiliary Air Force of any present  or former colony dominion or dependent territory of Great Britain or members of any former organisation the place of which has I substantially been taken by the said organisations or any of them, or I members of any future organisations which hereafter shall substantially take the place of the said organisations or any of them. and  (ii) all persons who shall at any time have been or be widows, widowers, children or other dependants of any of the persons above referred to. | £19,003,000
<strong>NATIONAL GROCERS BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1095897](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1095897)]<br>We tackle hardship amongst those who have worked or are working in the grocery trade, whether in manufacturing, distribution, wholesale or retail. We give financial help via regular and one-off crisis grants, and supply essential household items and independent living aids.  We offer practical and emotional support for a wide range of personal and welfare issues via our 24/7 helpline and website. | £15,850,964
<strong>National Grocers Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039255](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039255)]<br>The objects of the Company are:- (a) The relief of necessitous persons, who are or have been engaged in the grocery or provision trade, greengrocers and the off-licence trade, in any capacity, and for the relief of necessitous widows, widowers and their dependent children. (b) To undertake any other charitable purpose. | £15,850,964
<strong>Army Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC039189](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039189)]<br>The object of the charity is to benefit persons who are serving or who have served in the British Army, or their dependants, in any charitable way by the provision of grants, loans, gifts, pensions or othenrvise. | £15,259,562
<strong>Army Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [1146420](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146420)]<br>The Charity's Objectives are to benefit persons who are serving or who have served in the British Army, or their dependants, in any charitable way by the provision of grants, loans, gifts, pensions or otherwise. | £15,259,562
<strong>Musicians Benevolent Fund</strong> [Charity number: [SC049625](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049625)]<br>4. The objects for which the Association is established (the 'Objects') are for the public benefit: (A) To relieve poverty and financial hardship and to advance education among: (1) musicians. (2) those persons (not being members of the Association) who work or have worked in professions or occupations closely connected with music and who in the opinion of the Association have rendered valuable service to music. (3) the spouses, children and other dependents of those set out in (1) and (2) above. and  (B) To advance musical education among musicians and also among members of the public. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the Association?s property for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and/or section 2 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008.  | £6,512,000
<strong>MUSICIANS BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [228089](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-228089)]<br>The Musicians Benevolent Fund relieves need amongst professional musicians and their dependants and advances musical education for young musicians. | £6,512,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ROTARY CLUB OF WORKSOP BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [500920](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-500920)]<br>Financial help to local organisations, particularly caring for the young, old and vulnerable. Help in the field of environment and culture.  Assisting with educational schemes. All these within the area of the Club's area of activities. A limited amount of help towards overseas projects. | £2,201
<strong>HAMPSHIRE FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [232359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-232359)]<br>To provide assistance to those individuals who suffer hardship following accident or injury whilst participating in association football played under the administration of Hampshire Football Association Limited. | £1,973
<strong>NO 6 INNER WHEEL DISTRICT COMMITTEE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1024548](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1024548)]<br>General Charitable PurposesOverseas aid/Famine ReliefOther Charities/Voluntary bodies | £769
<strong>THE DUNCOMBE LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [267537](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-267537)]<br>Collection and distribution of monies to Masonic and local non-masonic charities. | £2,714
<strong>THE SOMERSETSHIRE LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [273031](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-273031)]<br>To or for the relief of such poor and distressed brother masons or their poor and distressed widows and children, or for the benefit of such masonic charities or other charitable institutions societies and objects as the Lodge shall in duly constituted meeting from time to time direct | £4,237
<strong>WEST MIDLANDS POLICE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1186628](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186628)]<br>The benevolent fund provides grants to serving and retired police officers and serving and retired employees of the West Midlands Police and any other Qualifying Police Organisations suffering from financial hardship or who have a charitable need. Also supports organisations associated with policing for eg, sponsorship of events or funding towards activities. | £299,232
<strong>THE SAINT PETER'S LODGE BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [230012](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-230012)]<br>Raffles and collections in the Lodge | £477
<strong>LIVERPOOL SHIPBROKERS' BENEVOLENT SOCIETY INCORPORATED</strong> [Charity number: [226072](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-226072)]<br>The Society exists to recognise those who have worked within the commerce of shipbroking and shipowning and are in need of assistance; to provide financial assistance where appropriate and provide friendship, care and support where financial assistance is not required; and to provide support, financial or otherwise, to the spouses, widowers, widows, children or dependents of such persons | £195,687
<strong>RETIRED LANCASHIRE POLICE DOG BENEVOLENT FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1200031](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1200031)]<br>To promote humane behaviour towards retired police dogs in Lancashire by providing financial assistance to the owners of retired police dogs who have charge of animals that are in need of appropriate care & attention by reason of sickness, poor circumstance or ill usage | £9,012
<strong>The Irish Bakers Benevolent Society</strong> [Charity number: [NI103686](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103686)]<br>Our first purpose is for the relief or benefit of persons who are in conditions of need, hardship or distress by the provision of financial or other charitable assistance. The direct benefits which flow from this purpose is that there will be a reduced level of hardship and stress to the beneficiaries at particularly difficult times in their lives. These benefits are evidenced through the help and support that we have given to date to the beneficiaries who have/are experiencing severe financial hardship which may be compounded through an inability to no longer work because of serious illness. In the last two years we have made approximately 15 grants to those in need. We have provided financial assistance to help with funeral expenses, mobility scooters, utility bills, basic household essentials and costs of living and coping with caring for the seriously ill. Our second purpose is to advance any other exclusively charitable purpose as the directors may, from time to time, decide in accordance with the law of charity. While the main benefit will primarily focus on the relief of need however the directors may decide in the future to make financial contributions to any charitable need that they feel worthy of financial assistance. The directors have chosen this purpose so that they will not be restricted in who or what they help as different situations present themselves they will judge each case on merit and need and recognise that it must be for one of the twelve charitable purposes as outlined in the Charities Act. There is no private benefit and no harm from our work. | £80,617
