# Social activities `SW107`

Social activities is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

5,478 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 2.70% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(social (activities|interaction|events?|inclusion)|sociali[zs]ing|sociali[sz]e|companionship|friendship)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 2,028 | 2.71%
£10k - £100k | 2,045 | 2.99%
£100k - £250k | 517 | 2.48%
£250k - £500k | 250 | 2.50%
£500k - £1m | 111 | 1.79%
£1m - £10m | 136 | 1.59%
Over £10m | 16 | 0.78%
Total | 5,103 | 2.67%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 4,505 | 2.64%
oscr | 569 | 2.29%
ccni | 404 | 5.62%
Total | 5,478 | 2.70%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ENABLE Communities Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC049060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049060)]<br>4.1 The objects of the Company are (i) the relief of those in need by reason of ill-health, disability or other disadvantage. (ii) the advancement of health. and (iii) the advancement of citizenship and community development through the promotion of the effectiveness or efficiency of charities. and in furtherance of those objects but not otherwise:-  (a)   to support and promote the interests and welfare of people with learning disabilities or communication difficulties, physical disabilities, hearing and visual impairment, or other illness and disability, including working to meet their needs, development their capabilities and enable and encourage them to participate in decisions affecting any area of their lives.  (b)  to promote mutual help, support, co-operation and understanding  amongst people with all forms of illness and disability, and their relatives and friends and those providing services to them.  (c)   to promote and encourage the provision of services and facilities for the benefit of people with all forms of illness and disability, their families and carers including the provision of special forms of housing and residential care and support to beneficiaries (in particular amongst those who have more profound disabilities).  (d)   to encourage research into the causes, treatment and management of all kinds of illness and disability and to disseminate the useful results of such research. (e)  to provide support and companionship to enable beneficiaries to pursue their interests and take part in leisure activities.  (f)  to create and deliver personalised, community based support to adults and children.    | £58,532,883
<strong>United Kingdom for UNHCR</strong> [Charity number: [1183415](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183415)]<br>UK for UNHCR fundraises on behalf of the UNHCR in order to support their assistance programmes, including promoting awareness, encouraging the advancement of education for and social inclusion, for the relief and protection of refugees, asylum seekers, internally displaced and stateless persons. | £55,748,000
<strong>FEDCAP UK</strong> [Charity number: [1175737](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175737)]<br>The activities of the charity is the advancement of social inclusion through enabling economic independence, employment and opportunity for disadvantaged and  disabled individuals through various workforce and economic development initiatives and programmes delivered across the UK. | £49,007,296
<strong>Inspire Wellbeing</strong> [Charity number: [NI103470](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103470)]<br>Niamh manages 15 Mental Health Day Support Schemes providing support to nearly 1,000 individuals. These are located in Armagh, Ballymena, South, East and West Belfast, Castlederg, Cookstown, Dungannon, Enniskillen, Lisnaskea, Londonderry, Magherafelt, Newtownards, North East Antrim and Omagh. Niamh also manages 2 Older Peoples Day Support Schemes, located in Irvinestown and Roslea. Niamh provides 11 24-hour staffed Supported Housing Schemes which are located in Antrim, Ballymoney, Bangor, Belfast and Cookstown. Niamh also provides 35 non-24 hour staffed schemes located throughout Northern Ireland. Niamh's Supported Housing promotes social inclusion by providing a safe homely environment in which people are supported to develop their life skills and maintain their tenancies. Niamh's Floating Support Services, based in Bangor, Newtownards and Omagh, are flexible locally based projects designed to assist individuals with mental health needs to access accommodation, maintain their home / tenancy and develop their ability to live independently in their own community. Niamh's Advocacy Services, based in Antrim, Armagh and Belfast, are independent services designed to listen carefully to the compliments, concerns, problems or issues that individuals may be experiencing whilst using mental health services and to give those people a voice. Niamh's Beacon Support Services , based in West Belfast and Londonderry, work in partnership with Sheltered Housing Schemes which provide accommodation for people with physical or mental health needs or older people. These services offer flexible and responsive social care to enhance the quality of life of individuals living in the schemes. | £38,531,000
<strong>THE BRENDONCARE FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [326508](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-326508)]<br>Brendoncare's purpose is to support older people, and its principal activities are the development and management of care centres (of which it currently has ten), and volunteer-led friendship and well-being clubs (of which it currently has over 60), situated in the South of England. | £27,485,000
<strong>CLARION FUTURES</strong> [Charity number: [1135056](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135056)]<br>The objects of the Charity are to develop the capacity and skills of the members of any socially and economically disadvantaged community so that they are better able to participate more fully in society; the prevention or relief of poverty or financial hardship and to promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded. | £26,005,000
<strong>RAPPORT HOUSING AND CARE</strong> [Charity number: [254140](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-254140)]<br>The organisation exists to establish, manage and improve houses and homes which provide residential and supported accommodation, together with care and companionship, for elderly people. | £16,663,618
<strong>GOODENOUGH COLLEGE</strong> [Charity number: [312894](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-312894)]<br>Goodenough College provides residential accommodation for British and international postgraduate students and their families in central London. We deliver a vibrant community through a unique programme of intellectual, cultural and social activities in line with our values of global citizenship and social responsibility. The Burn offers accommodation and an academic retreat in Scotland. | £16,389,000
<strong>POhWER</strong> [Charity number: [SC048858](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048858)]<br>4. Objects To promote social inclusion for the public benefit by preventing people from becoming socially excluded, relieving the needs of those people who are socially excluded in particular but not exclusively by: 4.1 Providing information, advice, support, empowerment and advocacy and managing advocacy and user-involvement projects which help people to speak up and to be heard as well as secure their rights and entitlements. 4.2 Supporting the development of empowerment, advocacy and service user-involvement projects which help people. 4.3 Supporting and providing information, advice, support, empowerment and advocacy and user-involvement projects. 4.4 Promoting information, advice, support, empowerment and advocacy and good practice in information, advice, support, advocacy and user-involvement 4.5 Promoting equal opportunities for people. 4.6 Educating and training people and organisations about empowerment, advocacy and user- involvement. 4. 7 Providing information, advice, support, empowerment and advocacy to people and those responsible for providing services to them.   | £16,086,520
<strong>Inspire (Partnership Through Life) Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC000038](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC000038)]<br>(1) To relieve those in need by reason of age or disability or some other disadvantage resulting in additional support needs, within Scotland, which may include (without prejudice to that generality):- i (A) providing, arranging for, assisting in or promoting the provision of accommodation, care and other services for such individuals, and/or managing such services. (8) advancing (through education, training and work experience) the employment prospects of such individuals. (C) providing social inclusion opportunities for such individuals. (D) conducting research into or reviews of the needs of such individuals. (2) To promote and/or support other similar projects and programmes which further charitable purposes | £15,802,891


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Assembled UK Charity</strong> [Charity number: [1195458](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195458)]<br>Promoting social inclusion by preventing people from becoming socially excluded, assisting them to integrate into society, and creating good citizens.  Socially excluded means being excluded from society, or parts of society, because of financial hardship or poor mental health and the relief of poverty in the United Kingdom by means of practical support and community/schools chaplaincy service. | 
<strong>THE MISERDEN VILLAGE HALL</strong> [Charity number: [277870](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277870)]<br>We provide a Village Hall for hire and for the promotion of various entertainments, functions, meetings and social activities for the use and enjoyment of the local community. | £5,121
<strong>KINGSTONE MOTHERS & TODDLERS</strong> [Charity number: [1035620](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1035620)]<br>A weekly gathering of local parents/carers and their babies and pre- schoolers.An opportunity to socialise and play. | £488
<strong>WORLDAID FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1103337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1103337)]<br>LOCALLY IN ROTHERHAM & SOUTH YORKSHIRE :organise events, promote community cohesion and integration within Rotherham and South Yorkshire. Helphing disadvantaged individuals, providing integration, social inclusion, by organising short mentally stimulating breaks, educational trips andencouraging active community involvement toimprove the health and wellbeing of individuals | 
<strong>ACTIVITY STATION</strong> [Charity number: [1165502](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1165502)]<br>To provide people with disabilities access to a range of fun and inclusive activities and social events in their local area that they can choose from.We also aim to work with local and national organisations, including charities to ensure that their experience and expertise, of working and helping people with disabilities, is passed on to AS activities and social events wherever possible. | £848
<strong>FULLAH PROGRESSIVE UNION</strong> [Charity number: [1152946](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1152946)]<br>Assisting members of community at the bereavement. Assist  young mothers at time of delivery. Holding meeting and providing opportunities to all the community members to get together and socialise. | £12,876
<strong>The General Wladyslaw Sikorski Memorial House Polish Social and Educational Society in Glasgow</strong> [Charity number: [SC046143](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046143)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 to advance equality, citizenship, and community development by assisting and promoting the work of Polish associations, clubs and communities in Scotland and those who foster friendship, trade and mutual understanding between the people of Poland and Scotland. 4.2 to advance the arts, culture, and heritage of Poland and Scotland including, without limitation, by displaying works by local artists, hosting musical and cultural events, and by maintaining a large library of records and a calendar of events to honour: 4.2.1 the memory and achievements of the late Prime Minister and Commander-in-chief, General Wladyslaw Sikorski. 4.2.2 the achievements and sacrifices of the re-formed Polish army, naval, air-force and auxiliary units and personnel, including merchant seamen, operating in and from Scotland duing World War II. and 4.2.3 the historic sacrifices and efforts of the Polish people in fighting for and maintaining the independence of the Polish nation and the freedom of Europe. 4.3 to provide sporting and recreational facilities and to organise appropriate leisure and intellectual activities with the object of improving the conditions of life for the persons for  whom the facilities and activities are primarily intended including, without limitation, maintaining the property and premises of General Wladyslaw Sikorski Memorial House at numbers 4 and 5 Parkgrove Terrace, Glasgow and providing suitable residential and social facilities by: 4.3.1 maintaining rental accommodation and clubrooms, including a library and function rooms for the enjoyment of members and their guests. 4.3.2 organising and supporting sporting recreation and competition. and 4.3.3 providing low-cost residential accommodation. 4.4 to relieve those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage in relation to providing accommodation. assisting those in need with applications for benefits, jobs, and permanent housing. by providing visits and transportation to elderly persons to church and medical appointments. by operating a third-party reporting centre or similar facility as authorised by Police Scotland and Safer Glasgow, and by working within the West of Scotland Regional Equality Council. maximum text reached, further full information can be obtained directly from the Charity | £115,482
<strong>THE GREENWICH CARERS CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1033718](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1033718)]<br>We offer a range of services for all adult carers and the people they care for in and around the Royal Borough of Greenwich.  Our facilities at The Stables SE7 provide a hub for carers and those needing support; offering respite, advocacy, emotional support, social activities, information and advice. We work with statutory partners to involve carers in strategic and developmental decisions. | £536,643
<strong>New Deer Community Association</strong> [Charity number: [SC033578](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC033578)]<br>(a) To promote the wellbeing of the inhabitants of New Deer and Parish by associating the local authorities, voluntary organisations and residents in a common effort to promote social activities, to foster a community spirit, to advance education and to achieve other aims as may be determined by the Association. To maintain and manage the New Deer Village Hall and Pleasure Park for activities promoted by the Association and its constituent members in merance of the above objects, and to carry out any extension of the premises or facilities provided which may at any time seem necessary or desirable. To reinvest any profits accruing from the activities of the Association into improvements to the facilities offered in the Public Hall and the Pleasure Park, or to some other purpose deemed by the Committee to be clearly of direct benefit to the inhabitants ofNew Deer. The Association shall be without distinction of sex, age, physical visual or mental ability, sexuality, marital status, race, nationality, religion, political opinion, or any other comparable factor. | £60,638
<strong>Swap and Save One-Stop Shop</strong> [Charity number: [SC046246](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046246)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1   To relieve poverty through the provision of free and recycled goods to those in need.    4.2    Advancing community development through providing a community facility and providing access to information. 4.3   To provide a community hub and recreational opportunities to allow the local community to meet, improve social interaction, learn new skills and improve conditions of life. | £13,208
