# Community transport `SW104`

Community transport is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) category.

800 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.39% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b((provides?|provision of|operate|voluntary|volunteer|community|accessible|sustainable) (transport(ation)?|bus)|door-to-door|mini-?bus(es)?|shopmobility|bus service|airstrip)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 189 | 0.26%
£10k - £100k | 303 | 0.43%
£100k - £250k | 97 | 0.44%
£250k - £500k | 77 | 0.71%
£500k - £1m | 53 | 0.79%
£1m - £10m | 51 | 0.57%
Over £10m | 7 | 0.32%
Total | 777 | 0.40%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 636 | 0.37%
oscr | 102 | 0.41%
ccni | 62 | 0.86%
Total | 800 | 0.39%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £327,318,000
<strong>Salvation Army</strong> [Charity number: [SC009359](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC009359)]<br>The objects of the Army shall be the advancement of the Christian religion, as promulgated in the religious doctrines set out in Schedule 1 to this Act which are professed, believed and taught by the Army and, pursuant thereto,  the advancement of education,  the relief of poverty. and other charitable objects beneficial to society or the community of mankind as a whole.  | £327,318,000
<strong>HCT GROUP</strong> [Charity number: [1091318](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091318)]<br>TRANSPORT SERVICES AND TRAINING SERVICES | £123,706,829
<strong>MOTABILITY</strong> [Charity number: [299745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-299745)]<br>Helps disabled people to make journeys by providing access to transport, and working to make transport more accessible. Oversees Motability Operations to deliver the Motability Scheme and provides grants to Scheme customers. Provides transport-related grants to charities and organisations. Carries out research and innovation to make transport more accessible now and in the longer-term. | £54,191,000
<strong>ACCESSIBLE TRANSPORT GROUP LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [700370](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700370)]<br>The Charity has two linked charities: Ring and Ride West Midlands and WMSNT (Accessible Transport Services). These operate 528 highly accessible minibus type vehicles to provide transport for people of all ages who suffer from mobility problems and 87 larger buses which fulfil Community Bus services. The Charity also provides CPC and NVQ based training to local authorities and other agencies. | £22,281,438
<strong>Paths For All Partnership</strong> [Charity number: [SC025535](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC025535)]<br>The object for which the Company is established is to advance, encourage and facilitate the creation, improvement, management, promotion and use by everyone of paths and other routes on land and water for recreation, everyday journeys and physical activity. and in so doing advance health and well-being, environmental improvement, heritage, community development, sustainable transport and economic development. | £15,583,524
<strong>LOCAL SOLUTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [515060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515060)]<br>The provision of services in the following fields:      Homecare,      Shopmobility,      Training ,      Welfare Rights,      Supported Accommodation,      Support for the disabled,      Carers Support,      Liverpool Watersports Centre,      Mobex,      Domestic Violence Service,      Conference Facilities | £14,598,037
<strong>Cycling Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC029760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC029760)]<br>1. The Company is established for charitable purposes only with the intention of providing public benefit in Scotland and elsewhere, and in particular the Company is established: (a) to promote and advance awareness and understanding of the significant health, social, environmental and economic benefits of getting more people cycling safely and confidently for everyday travel, exercise and recreation. (b) to advance the education of the public generally and young people in particular in safer cycling and cycling road safety, including through delivery of cycle training for people of all ages. (c) to promote and support the design and delivery of inclusive and widely available routes, paths and associated facilities for cycling, walking and other forms of low energy and sustainable transport. and (d) to undertake projects, programmes and activities of a charitable nature aimed at reducing barriers to cycling and contributing to achieving local and national objectives and outcomes in relation to improving health and wellbeing, economic and environmental sustainability and reducing inequalities. | £9,186,927
<strong>EALING COMMUNITY TRANSPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1135354](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1135354)]<br>Ealing Community Transport delivers safe, accessible and affordable community transport for communities across the UK. IT provides flexible and responsive transport solutions to communities with unmet transport needs. ECT's services enable people with mobility difficulties or those who lack access to ordinary public transport to live independent lives and participate in their communities. | £6,946,491
<strong>CT4N CHARITABLE TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [700463](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-700463)]<br>Provision of localised accessible transport services to local residents and groups who have a specific mobility need not covered by normal public transport. | £5,565,739


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>DENE VALLEY COMMUNITY TRANSPORT LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1090747](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090747)]<br>The charity's main activity is to provide a Community Transport service in the Dene Valley and surrounding areas. | £49,814
<strong>Nairn Community Transport</strong> [Charity number: [SC036650](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036650)]<br>To promote the benefit of the inhabitants of Nairn by operating transport services to assist the work of organisations engaged in the relief of poverty, sickness and the disabilities of old age, the provision of facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation within the meaning of Section 1 of the Recreational Charities Act 1958 or any other charitable purpose so that the conditions of life of the aforementioned inhabitants may be improved. | £74,299
<strong>HARROW COMMUNITY TRANSPORT</strong> [Charity number: [1115080](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1115080)]<br>To provide relief (including through provision of a community transport service), for those who live or work in Harrow and other London Boroughs, who are in need because of age, sickness or disability (mental or physical) or poverty or a lack of availability of adequate and safe public transport services. | £442,786
<strong>THE FRIENDS OF PERSEID SCHOOL</strong> [Charity number: [298875](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-298875)]<br>We provide specialist equipment for children in Perseid Special School. Examples include specially adapted minibus with wheelchair lift (enables pupils take part activities in community; building of hydrotherapy pool;provision of IT and Communication Aids; Plasma Touch Screens; Special playground equipment; Visits to theatre by the children; Funding of activities to support curriculum; | £1,558
<strong>Coigach Community Development Company</strong> [Charity number: [SC047971](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC047971)]<br>The Company’s main purpose is consistent with furthering the achievement of sustainable development. It has been formed to benefit the community of Coigach as defined by the Coigach Community Council Boundary at set out in Schedule 3 ('the Community'), with the Purposes listed in Articles 3.1.1 to 3.1.7 ('the Purposes'), to be exercised following the principles of sustainable development (where sustainable development means development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs), namely: 3.1.1 to advance community development by: (a) the management of community land and associated assets for the benefit of the Community and the public in general. and (b) urban or rural regeneration within the Community. 3.1.2 to advance environmental protection or improvement including preservation, sustainable development and conservation of the natural environment, the maintenance, improvement or provision of environmental amenities for the Community and/ or the preservation of buildings or sites of architectural, historic or other importance to the Community. 3.1.3 to advance the education of the Community about its environment, culture, heritage and/or history and provide assistance for access to training opportunities to relieve unemployment and improve skills development within the Community. 3.1.4 to provide, or assist in providing, recreational facilities, and/or organising recreational activities, which will be available to members of the Community and public at large with the object of improving the conditions of life of the Community. 3.1.5 to relieve those in need by reason of age, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage by the provision and support of sustainable transport within the Community to provide access to healthcare. 3.1.6 to advance citizenship and civic responsibility by providing assistance to individuals and voluntary sector organisations in order to deliver and train volunteers and support youth projects. 3.1.7 to advance the arts, heritage, culture and science by supporting artistic performance and development within the Community and programmes relating to its cultural and natural heritage. and 3.1.8 to carry out any other business which may be advantageously carried out in connection with this Article 3.1. | £950,514
<strong>Comrie Community Bus Trust - Co-Co Bus</strong> [Charity number: [SC010271](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010271)]<br>The Trust established for anyone or more of the following purposes and only in so far as they are charitable in law by reference to Section 505 of and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 or any subsequent re-enactment or amendment, namely:- To promote the benefit of the inhabitants of Comrie and District (hereinafter 'the Community') by providing in the interests of education and social welfare a community bus (hereinafter 'the Bus') for the use of handicapped elderly, youth and educational groups with the object of improving the conditions of life of the said groups. In furtherance thereof:- (i) To secure the establishment, maintenance and management of a community bus and set down rules to govern the arrangements for the use of the Bus by those who are intended to benefit from such use. (ii) To promote such other charitable purposes for the benefit of the Community whether or not relating to the Bus, so long as such activities are lawful of a charitable nature. | £3,942
<strong>Port Glasgow Voluntary Trans-Port Group</strong> [Charity number: [SC007529](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC007529)]<br>(1) To provide relief to people who are in need because of age, mental or physical disability or illness or poverty, and in particular (but without prejudice to that generality) to provide and assist in the provision of community transport services serving the needs of such people. (2) To promote, conduct and/or support other charitable projects and initiatives of a charitable nature for the benefit of the community. | £115,975
<strong>DINAS POWYS VOLUNTARY CONCERN</strong> [Charity number: [502496](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-502496)]<br>Dinas Powys Voluntary Concern provides a service to individuals, groups and organisations, in particular the elderly and people with disabilities. It does this by providing a community resource centre, running a wellbeing and befriending scheme, providing and maintaining a minibus-ambulance, publishing a free newsletter and community directory, offering support to local voluntary organisations. | £52,982
<strong>CENTRE 81 LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1045514](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1045514)]<br>Skills & Activities Centre for adults with physical & other disabilities & complex health/social issues - To promote self confidence, abilities & independence.  - To share our knowledge/skills/benefits of person centred work  - To work with & within the wider community.  - Raise awareness & funds. To operate a fully accessible Community Transport  service for the wider community. | £898,100
<strong>Beragh Age Concern</strong> [Charity number: [NI103209](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103209)]<br>Beragh Age Concern was formed in 1989 and is managed, and its activities delivered, on a voluntary basis. The main function of the group is for its members to meet weekly and have a meal together and exchange news, views and gossip. Easilink Community Transport brings people in from outlying rural areas and volunteers serve meals prepared by staff in the local Primary School. During this time members also play bingo, do armchair exercises or play Boccia to name but a few activities. Recent funding has allowed us to hire a bus and get members out walking and go for light refreshments. Occasionally we have trips away as weather and funds allow and we have people in giving talks such as road safety - as many of our members still drive, as well as community safety, benefit entitlements and local geography. We also invite groups to join us in musical nights and in turn we visit other groups. Our activities take place in the Cornerstone, Beragh. | £5,503
