# Domestic abuse `SW202`

Domestic abuse is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Abuse subcategory.

723 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.36% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(domestic (abuse|violence)|violence against women|honou?r( |-)(based )?violence|women'?s aid|women( and children)? who have experienced (violence|sexual abuse))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 147 | 0.21%
£10k - £100k | 121 | 0.17%
£100k - £250k | 73 | 0.33%
£250k - £500k | 79 | 0.72%
£500k - £1m | 103 | 1.50%
£1m - £10m | 124 | 1.36%
Over £10m | 11 | 0.49%
Total | 658 | 0.34%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 610 | 0.36%
oscr | 84 | 0.34%
ccni | 29 | 0.40%
Total | 723 | 0.36%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Change, Grow, Live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>The objects of the Charity are, for the public benefit: 3.1 the advancement of health or the saving of lives, and the prevention or relief of poverty among: 3.1.1 people who have been, or are, or are at risk of becoming: 3.1.1.1 affected by use of or dependent on drugs, alcohol or other substances. 3.1.1.2 homeless. 3.1.1.3 imprisoned. 3.1.2 young people. 3.1.3 such other people identified by the Trustees from time to time. 3.1.4 the families, carers and dependents of such persons. (“Beneficiaries”), in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support, services, interventions and treatment. 3.2 the advancement of education among: 3.2.1 Beneficiaries, and the relief of their unemployment, in particular (but not exclusively) by providing information, advice, support and services. and 3.2.2 the general public in relation to the experiences of Beneficiaries, in particular (but not exclusively) by conducting and promoting research, gathering and sharing data, and raising awareness. 3.3 the promotion of such other charitable purposes as the Trustees see fit from time to time. Nothing in these Articles shall authorise an application of the property of the Charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with any statutory provision regarding the meaning of the word 'charitable' or the words 'charitable purposes' in force in any part of the United Kingdom. | £339,714,761
<strong>CHANGE, GROW, LIVE</strong> [Charity number: [1079327](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1079327)]<br>CGL provides a range of services to support individuals, families and communities whose lives are adversely affected by crime, substance misuse, homelessness, anti-social behaviour, domestic violence, social deprivation and lack of opportunity.The Charity works with challenging service users with complex needs, including those with entrenched drug habits and offending behaviour. | £339,714,761
<strong>HESTIA HOUSING AND SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [294555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294555)]<br>Hestia delivers high quality & empowering housing, support, protection & care services in partnership with service users & local communities in 22 London boroughs. Hestia provides services to people with mental health needs, physical disability, substance misusers, offenders, women & children fleeing domestic abuse, older & young people, personal budget holders & other wider community groups. | £56,783,162
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £31,975,898
<strong>SOLACE WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1082450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082450)]<br>THE PROMOTION OF THE PHYSICAL, EMOTIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING AND SAFETY OF VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC, SEXUAL AND ASSOCIATED ABUSE, IN PARTICULAR WOMEN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND CHILDREN. | £15,815,369
<strong>LOCAL SOLUTIONS</strong> [Charity number: [515060](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-515060)]<br>The provision of services in the following fields:      Homecare,      Shopmobility,      Training ,      Welfare Rights,      Supported Accommodation,      Support for the disabled,      Carers Support,      Liverpool Watersports Centre,      Mobex,      Domestic Violence Service,      Conference Facilities | £14,598,037
<strong>PENNY APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1128341](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128341)]<br>Penny Appeal provides poverty relief across Asia, the Middle East and Africa, with dedicated programmes to help the poor and needy by building wells, caring for orphans, providing nutritious food, delivering emergency aid in response to crisis situations and providing healthcare. Penny Appeal also works in the UK to help homeless people and women who have experienced domestic abuse. | £13,136,985
<strong>JULIAN HOUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1183751](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1183751)]<br>Julian House provides a range of services to socially excluded people across the South West; particularly in the areas of homelessness, domestic abuse and community rehabilitation.  We operate  a range of supported housing projects, emergency hostel accommodation, advice services, assertive outreach support and a number of social enterprises.  Not just changing lives.  Often saving lives | £11,165,543
<strong>BLACK COUNTRY WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1032298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032298)]<br>Provision of support,and emergency services to vulnerable women and children experiencing rape, sexual assault and domestic abuse. Services include provision of emergency accommodation, floating support services, community  support and counselling. Services also include development with agencies to raise awareness of domestic abuse and develop support systems to enable them to access SWA services. | £10,283,519
<strong>Honeycomb Charitable Services Limited</strong> [Charity number: [701376](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-701376)]<br>We support disadvantaged children, young people, adults and families in Stoke-on-Trent, Staffordshire, Derbyshire (inc Derby City) and Cheshire East. We support people in housing need or crisis to develop skills and confidence to live independently. We provide services to tackle domestic abuse, increase victims safety and work with perpetrators to address abusive behaviour to make positive change. | £10,076,309


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Black Women in Action</strong> [Charity number: [SC050778](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC050778)]<br>The objectives of BWIA are: (a)   To promote the advancement of education and health through training, seminars, and workshops facilitated by volunteers who have the right expertise, in order to improve physical health and wellbeing of women of black and ethnic minority group. (b)   To Facilitate opportunities towards prevention of or relief of poverty through activities that boost and strengthen sense of achievement and belonging amongst women of black and ethnic minority group. (c)    To promote the advancement of citizenship and community development through activities that increase the bonding amongst women of black and ethnic minority group within our community and social circle. (d)   To promote the advancement of human rights by creating awareness as well as provide support for black and ethnic minority women suffering from domestic abuse.  (e)    To facilitate social communal recreational, physical educational activities for the common good of women of black and ethnic minority group in order to improve their general wellbeing | £6,778
<strong>HULL WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1160440](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160440)]<br>HWA supports women, children & young people that are suffering or have suffered domestic abuse to establish safe independent lives.  Core work is delivered in a secure refuge for women & children.  Support is also delivered on outreach basis to women, children & young people.  HWA delivers training and awareness raising programmes and also works in partnership with statutory and voluntary bodies. | £755,310
<strong>THERAPY SERVICES (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1116558](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1116558)]<br>We provide counselling and one to one or group support to people of all ages, who have issues around mental health, domestic violence, relationship problems, emotional and/or physical trauma.  We offer a drop-in service that gives additional support to people between sessions.  We work with all ages and specialise in working with young people who are or have lived in a domestic violence family. | £12,432
<strong>PHOENIX AID CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1138444](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1138444)]<br>Providing therapeutic services and other assistance to those who are unable to afford it through lack of means or who are otherwise in need, in particular (but not limited to) the following: students who are suffering from severe difficulties, women and girls who are victims of domestic violence, children, refugees, elderly people, families of those in prison, victims of natural disasters. | £694
<strong>COMMUNITY OUTREACH</strong> [Charity number: [1190738](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1190738)]<br>The Charity provides support and accommodation to adults, children, young people, refugees and victims of domestic abuse to overcome the trauma of homelessness. We are a charitable organisation providing much needed help across the world. The Charity has an educational, training, coaching and mentoring role promoting kindness, support, independence, peace and unity. | £994,588
<strong>SEXUAL AND DOMESTIC ABUSE & RAPE ADVICE CENTRE (BURTON & DISTRICT)</strong> [Charity number: [1049759](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1049759)]<br>SARAC provides counselling, support and advice to males and females over the age of 11 who have experienced rape, sexual and/or domestic abuse at any time in their lives.  Also offer support to partners, family members, friends, colleagues who are also affected by a person's abuse.  Offers telephone helpline, face to face counselling and group sessions. Also provide training to other agencies. | 
<strong>POWERHOUSE INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1122349](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1122349)]<br>Providing a place of worship, helping the less priveledged , and helping to solve the community challenges like street crime,domestic abuse, drug abuse, homeless people, alcohol addictions | £19,867
<strong>RED ROSE HOUSING</strong> [Charity number: [1168267](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1168267)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN ENGLAND AND WALES THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY AND THE RELIEF OF THOSE IN NEED, HARDSHIP OR DISTRESS IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY:(A) PROVIDE SUPPORTED HOUSING TO THOSE INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE STREET HOMELESS, IN PRIORITY NEED AS DEFINED BY PART 7 OF THE HOUSING ACT 2004 AND PART 6 OF THE HOUSING ACT 2004 AND UNDER LOCAL AUTHORITY CHOICE BASED LETTINGS SCHEME OR ALLOCATION POLICY;(B) PROVIDING SPECIALIST SUPPORTED HOUSING FOR CARE LEAVERS, THOSE LEAVING CARE AND UNDER 35'S IN NEED WHO ARE IMPACTED BY CHANGES TO WELFARE REFORM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE UNDER 35 SINGLE ROOM RATE CAP (BEDROOM TAX);(C) PROVIDING ACCOMMODATION (WITH OR WITHOUT PARTNERS) FOR THE RELIEF OF THOSE SUFFERING OR WHO HAVE SUFFERED DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (REFUGE SPACE), AND THOSE BEING DISPERSED UNDER THE SYRIAN REFUGEE DISPERSAL PROGRAMME INCLUDING WORKING WITH THE EAST MIDLANDS COUNCILS IN PURSUIT OF THESE AIMS AND BY SIGNPOSTING TO SPECIALIST AGENCIES PROVIDING ACCESS TO SUPPORT AND INTEGRATION INTO THE COMMUNITY;(D) PROVIDING SPECIALIST OLDER PERSONS ACCOMMODATION INCLUDING WORKING WITH AND SUPPORTING NOTTINGHAMSHIRE COUNTY COUNCIL FOR THE PROVISION OF EXTRA CARE ACCOMMODATION, CLUSTER UNITS FOR LEARNING DISABILITIES AND ADAPTED ACCOMMODATION;(E) PROVIDING SUPPORTED ACCOMMODATION FOR THOSE LEAVING HER MAJESTY’S ARMED FORCES WHO ARE IN NEED, HARDSHIP OR DISTRESS INCLUDING THE PROVISION OF FULLY FURNISHED ACCOMMODATION AND TENANCY SUPPORT;(F) PROVIDING TRAINING ON: ADULT SAFEGUARDING, SAFEGUARDING CHILDREN, COMBATTING ILLEGAL MONEY LENDING, AND ON DEBT ADVICE INCLUDING WORKING WITH: THE TRADING STANDARDS ILLEGAL MONEY LENDING TEAM, AND NOTTINGHAMSHIRE ADULT AND CHILDREN SAFEGUARDING BOARDS TO THE VOLUNTARY SECTOR AND PRIVATE SECTOR LANDLORDS AND COMMUNITY GROUPS TO FULFIL THIS TRAINING AIM;(G) PROVIDING HELP AND ADVICE ON ISSUES RELATING TO THOSE WITH SOCIAL WELFARE PROBLEMS AND LINKING THOSE IN NEED OF ASSISTANCE WITH EMPLOYERS WHO ARE TAKING ON TRAINEES AND APPRENTICESHIPS;(H) WORKING WITH PRIVATE SECTOR LANDLORDS WITH THE AIM TO INCREASE THE PROVISION OF SUITABLE, SAFE HOUSING FOR THOSE IN NEED OF IT; AND(I) PROVIDING HOUSING MANAGEMENT SUPPORT AND BASIC LIFE SKILLS WITH THE AIM TO ALLOW TENANTS TO SUSTAIN THEIR TENANCY AND THEN TO MOVE ON TO PERMANENT AND SETTLED ACCOMMODATION. | 
<strong>Northern Ireland Women's Aid Federation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106451](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106451)]<br>We offer education, training and support to organisations and individuals working with victims of domestic and sexual violence. We also work directly with victims and we work in partnership with other agencies to promote, develop and deliver education on violence against women and girls, including trafficking and exploitation, FGM, honour based violence and domestic and sexual violence. We also raise awareness about domestic and sexual violence as a gender issue and work with partners locally, nationally and internationally to raise awareness of this issue. Our activities support those affected, we promote the provision of safe temporary accommodation for women and their children, young people and vulnerable adult dependents who are, or have been, experiencing domestic, sexual or gender based violence or abuse. We also work to advance women’s and children’s human rights and gender equality and raise awareness about the violation, impairment or nullification of enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also work with government and partnership organisations to develop support services for all victims of domestic and sexual violence. | £1,168,616
<strong>OPERATION ENCOMPASS</strong> [Charity number: [1169147](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169147)]<br>Operation Encompass is a Police and Education early intervention safeguarding partnership which supports children and young people by reporting to schools before the start of the next school day when a child or young person has experienced a domestic abuse incident the previous evening. | £3,250
