# Abuse `SW200`

Abuse is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Abuse subcategory.

1,256 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.62% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(abus(e|ive|ed))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 230 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 290 | 0.42%
£100k - £250k | 144 | 0.68%
£250k - £500k | 138 | 1.36%
£500k - £1m | 136 | 2.15%
£1m - £10m | 178 | 2.07%
Over £10m | 12 | 0.58%
Total | 1,128 | 0.59%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 968 | 0.57%
oscr | 219 | 0.89%
ccni | 69 | 0.96%
Total | 1,256 | 0.62%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>change,grow,live</strong> [Charity number: [SC039861](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039861)]<br>3. The objects of the Charity are to relieve poverty in particular but not exclusively through the provision of housing, to relieve sickness and to advance the education and training in particular of all persons (and members of their families) who: 3.1.1 have committed or are likely to commit a criminal act or acts. or 3.1.2 have been or are or are in danger of becoming substance misusers. or 3.1.3 have been or are or are in danger of becoming addicted to or dependent upon drugs of any description including without limitation on the generality of the foregoing illegal drugs, alcohol, solvents or other addictive substances. or 3.1.4 have been or are or are likely to become victims of domestic abuse. or 3.1.5 have been or are or are likely to become homeless. or 3.1.6 suffer mental ill health. or 3.1.7 have suffered a legal restriction on their liberty In any penal or correctional establishment. to advance the education of the public by promoting study and research into homelessness and all aspects of and methods of crime prevention and delinquency and the prevention of drug abuse and substance misuse and to disseminate the useful results of such research. to promote for the public benefit the prevention of criminal acts and of drug abuse and substance misuse and of homelessness. to promote for the public benefit the protection of people and property from criminal acts and the effects of drug abuse and substance misuse. the promotion of charitable purposes within the member countries of the European Union, for the advancement of education, the protection of health, the relief of poverty, sickness and distress and to reduce substance related harm to the individual and the wider community. and to undertake such other activities as are charitable. | £284,264,901
<strong>United Kingdom Committee for UNICEF</strong> [Charity number: [SC043677](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC043677)]<br>5.1 The objects of the Charity are: 5.2 to promote human rights for children (as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and other relevant United Nations conventions and declarations, and other relevant international and regional human rights instruments) throughout the world. 5.3 To further charitable work for children throughout the world including work through families and their communities for : 5.3.1 The relief of poverty and need. 5.3.2 The provision of education and training. 5.3.3 The promotion and protection of, and provision for , health. and 5.3.4 The protection of children who are vulnerable to exploitation and abuse.  | £160,850,000
<strong>HESTIA HOUSING AND SUPPORT</strong> [Charity number: [294555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-294555)]<br>Hestia delivers high quality & empowering housing, support, protection & care services in partnership with service users & local communities in 22 London boroughs. Hestia provides services to people with mental health needs, physical disability, substance misusers, offenders, women & children fleeing domestic abuse, older & young people, personal budget holders & other wider community groups. | £48,243,903
<strong>Al-Khair Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [SC042234](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC042234)]<br>3.1.1 The advancement of general and religious education including but not restricted to the study, promotion and support of: (i) primary, secondary, college and university education. (ii) knowledge and understanding of Muslims and the beliefs, teachings and practices of Islam and of any other useful knowledge. (iii) good parenting skills and the protection of women, children and young people. (iv) comparative religion and interfaith dialogue with the aim of securing mutual understanding, tolerance, harmony and peace between Muslims and those who hold different or similar beliefs and follow different or similar ways of life. (vi) art and culture. (vii) enhancing, improving and strengthening local communities by means of promoting community cohesion in particular and supporting community regeneration in general. (viii) the deterrence and prevention of any form of discrimination including but not restricted to racial, religious, disability and gender discrimination. (ix) the prevention of alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (x) the prevention of gambling and debt. (xi) the prevention of crime including any form of terrorism. (xii) the promotion of Islamic Shari'a compliant finance. (xiii) the observance and maintenance of human rights in accordance with the rule of law. 3.1.2 The relief of poverty, sickness, distress and suffering of any persons who are in need including orphans, refugees , disabled and displaced people irrespective of their nationality, race, ethnic origin and religious beliefs including but not restricted to the relief of those who are the victims of : (i) natural disasters including droughts, earthquakes, epidemics, fires, hurricane and goods. (ii) man-made disasters including industrial accidents, social conflict and wars. (iii) racial, religious, disability or gender discrimination. (iv) alcohol and drugs abuse and misuse. (v) gambling and debt. (vi) economic and social deprivation. (vii) crime including any form of terrorism. | £31,275,010
<strong>Phoenix House</strong> [Charity number: [SC039008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039008)]<br>4 The charity's objects (Objects) are specifically restricted to the following: 4.1the treatment and care of those suffering from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and alcohol. 4.,3 the rehabilitation of those relieved from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and or alcohol. 4.4 the advancement of education of persons working or concerned in the field of drugs and or alcohol dependence or abuse. 4.5 the treatment, care and recovery of persons suffering from psychological or physical infirmity or an addictive lifestyle, including but not limited to persons who have addictions or mental health problems relating to gambling, smoking, drugs, alcohol or food or who by adverse circumstances or ill health are in need of help, counselling, or guidance in acquiring a settled way of life so that they may develop full maturity as responsible individuals and members of society.  4.6 the care, resettlement and provision of support and advice to offenders, ex-offenders and those who might offend so that they can be rehabilitated, live independently, develop positive personal relationships and contribute to their families and communities. and 4.7 to relieve the needs of persons, including but not limited to families and communities, arising out of their relationship with persons having the issues set out in the preceding objects, including the provision of and continued development of services and advice related to social housing, other housing, community engagement, education, employment, family and care support. 4.8 Nothing in the articles shall authorise an application of the property of the charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005.  | £23,764,000
<strong>Amnesty International UK Section Charitable Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC039534](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039534)]<br>To promote human rights (as set out in the Universal Declaration of   Human Rights ('UDHR') and subsequent United Nations conventions and declarations and in regional codes of human rights which incorporate the rights contained in the UDHR and those subsequent conventions and declarations) throughout the world by all or any of the following means:- I (a) monitoring abuses of human rights (b) obtaining redress for the victims of human rights abuse. (c) relieving need among the victims of human rights abuse. (d) research into human rights issues. (e) educating the public about human rights (f) providing technical advice to government and others on human rights matters. (g) contributing to the sound administration of human rights law. (h) commenting on proposed human rights legislation. I (i) raising awareness of human rights issues. I (j) promoting public support for human rights. (k) promoting respect for human rights among individuals and corporations. (1) international advocacy of human rights. and (m) eliminating infringements of human rights. | £22,827,000
<strong>PENNY APPEAL</strong> [Charity number: [1128341](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1128341)]<br>Penny Appeal provides poverty relief across Asia, the Middle East and Africa, with dedicated programmes to help the poor and needy by building wells, caring for orphans, providing nutritious food, delivering emergency aid in response to crisis situations and providing healthcare. Penny Appeal also works in the UK to help homeless people and women who have experienced domestic abuse. | £22,429,858
<strong>Penny Appeal</strong> [Charity number: [SC049025](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049025)]<br>1.1 The Objects of Penny Appeal ('the Charity') are:- (1) to prevent and/or relieve poverty by providing humanitarian assistance and other means. to advance and promote education by providing and assisting in the provision of facilities for education and to advance health by the provision of financial or other assistance, including medicines, hospitals and other means, in each case for the public benefit anywhere in the world. (2) the relief of financial need and suffering among victims of natural or other kinds of disaster in the form of money or other means deemed suitable for persons/bodies, organisations and/or countries affected. (3) to develop the capacity and skills of members of the socially and economically disadvantaged communities in such a way that they are better able to identify and help meet the needs and participate more fully in society. (4) to promote human rights (as defined in the universal declaration of human rights and subsequent United Nations conventions and declarations) by ?Obtaining redress for the victims of human rights abuse. ?Relieving need among the victims of human rights abuse. ?Research into human rights issues. ?Providing technical advice to government and others on human rights matters. ?Raising awareness of human rights issues. ?Promoting public support for human rights. ?Promoting respect for human rights among individuals and corporations. ?International advocacy of human rights. ?Eliminating infringements of human rights All in pursuance of equality and diversity and in particular where to do so contributes to the prevention and relief of poverty. (5) to promote sustainable development which meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs and will be promoted by the preservation, conservation and the protection of the environment and the prudent use of resources, the relief of poverty and the improvement of the conditions of life m socially and economically disadvantaged communities and the promotion of sustainable means of achieving economic growth and regeneration.. | £16,188,549
<strong>SOLACE WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1082450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082450)]<br>THE PROMOTION OF THE PHYSICAL, EMOTIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING AND SAFETY OF VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC, SEXUAL AND ASSOCIATED ABUSE, IN PARTICULAR WOMEN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND CHILDREN. | £15,155,682
<strong>Royal Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children</strong> [Charity number: [SC016092](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016092)]<br>The prevention of harm to children, and particularly: [1] To prevent abuse and neglect of children and [2] To assist the recovery of children from abuse and neglect. In furtherance of the following objects the Corporation shall work (i) To build the strengths of children who are vunerable (ii) To enhance the lives of such children by supporting parents (iii) To champion the rights and interests of such children (iv) To do all such other lawful things as are considered expedient for or consistent with the attainment of the objects of the Corporation. | £14,230,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>The Mary Brown Memorial Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC048591](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC048591)]<br>The organisation's purposes are: 4.1 To advance the Christian faith by the support of Christian churches and para-church organisations, Christian community projects, full-time Christian workers (employed or otherwise) in churches and para-church organisations and to support charities promoting the Christian faith and its tenets in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world. 4.2 To advance and promote education in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world by supporting educational charities, educational institutions and educational projects of any kind, including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, by supporting and sponsoring people through secondary and tertiary education in particular those who through disadvantage of any kind are unable to meet the cost of further education (including fees, travel expenses or subsistence expenses). 4.3 To prevent or relieve poverty in the United Kingdom or elsewhere in the world by the support of charities which bring relief from poverty to those who are suffering the results of poverty of any kind . 4.4 To advance health in the United Kingdom or elsewhere in the world by the support of charities or projects which promote or support the improvement of health and healthy living (including, without prejudice to the foregoing generality, the provision of recreational or sporting facilities with the object of improving health for the persons for whom the facilities are primarily intended). 4.5 To advance citizenship or community development by the support of charities and projects of any kind in the United Kingdom or elsewhere in the world which promote good citizenship and strong communities. 4.6 To promote religious or racial harmony by the support of charities or projects in the United Kingdom or elsewhere in the world which promote the reconciliation of religious or racial groups which cause division, discrimination or abuse. 4.7 To promote equality and diversity by the support of charities and similar projects in the United Kingdom and elsewhere in the world which seek to create equality among peoples of all ages, religion and disabilities.  Full details of the charity purposes can be found on the charitys constitution  | £100,081
<strong>POOLE REFUGE 'HELPING HANDS'</strong> [Charity number: [1175467](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1175467)]<br>Poole Refuge Helping Hands has been set up to provide the relief/support of persons, who have suffered or are in danger of suffering domestic violence or abuse and their children by the provision of support and other assistance in particular but not exclusively to the Poole Refuge. The Charity (all volunteers) has received a John Jay Shield award and Poole Council Community Champions award. | £17,577
<strong>LIFE AND HOPE</strong> [Charity number: [1208745](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208745)]<br>FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, THE ADVANCEMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (AS SET OUT IN THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND SUBSEQUENT UNITED NATIONS CONVENTIONS AND DECLARATIONS) BY THE PREVENTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSE, IN TUNISIA, BY EDUCATING AND ADVISING THOSE WHO ARE VULNERABLE TO BEING VICTIMS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING, IN PARTICULAR BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY YOUNG PEOPLE AND FAMILIES IN POVERTY. | 
<strong>SIRONA HOMES CIO</strong> [Charity number: [1205748](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205748)]<br>Sirona Homes provides dispersed housing to women who have experienced domestic abuse and need a safe and secure home to successfully rebuild their lives, claim back their independence and live a fulfilling life free from violence & fear. The women tenants are supported by staff who provide intensive housing support and address emotional and therapeutic issues associated with the trauma of abuse. | 
<strong>JABALIE</strong> [Charity number: [1210496](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1210496)]<br>Jabalie is a UK charity working internationally with survivors and individuals that are at high risk of gender-based violence. We provide an education and empowerment programme to equip survivors with knowledge, skills and confidence to gain economic independence and break the cycle of abuse, in addition to training, advocacy and a community platform. | 
<strong>TOGETHERASONE</strong> [Charity number: [1202514](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1202514)]<br>TO PROMOTE SOCIAL INCLUSION FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT BY PREVENTING PEOPLE FROM BECOMING SOCIALLY EXCLUDED, RELIEVING THE NEEDS OF THOSE PEOPLE WHO ARE SOCIALLY EXCLUDED AND ASSISTING THEM TO INTEGRATE INTO SOCIETY.FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS CLAUSE ‘SOCIALLY EXCLUDED’ MEANS BEING EXCLUDED FROM SOCIETY, OR PARTS OF SOCIETY, AS A RESULT OF ONE OF MORE OF THE FOLLOWING FACTORS: UNEMPLOYMENT; FINANCIAL HARDSHIP; YOUTH OR OLD AGE; ILL HEALTH (PHYSICAL OR MENTAL); SUBSTANCE ABUSE OR DEPENDENCY INCLUDING ALCOHOL AND DRUGS; DISCRIMINATION ON THE GROUNDS OF SEX, RACE, DISABILITY, ETHNIC ORIGIN, RELIGION, BELIEF, CREED, SEXUAL ORIENTATION OR GENDER RE-ASSIGNMENT; POOR EDUCATIONAL OR SKILLS ATTAINMENT; RELATIONSHIP AND FAMILY BREAKDOWN; POOR HOUSING (THAT IS HOUSING THAT DOES NOT MEET BASIC HABITABLE STANDARDS; CRIME (EITHER AS A VICTIM OF CRIME OR AS AN OFFENDER REHABILITATING INTO SOCIETY. | 
<strong>FARM ANIMAL RESCUE SANCTUARY</strong> [Charity number: [1203938](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1203938)]<br>Farm Animal Rescue Sanctuary takes in unwanted, neglected, abused and sick animals, and provides a shelter, rehabilitation, and veterinary care. We seek to rehome or rewild animals (subject to home checks). We also provide education via open days and volunteer and student placements. | 
<strong>Maryhill Burgh Halls Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC036089](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC036089)]<br>The company's objects are: (1) To preserve, for the benefit of the general public, the historical, architectural and constructional heritage that may exist within the UK Parliament Glasgow North burgh constituency area (as created in 2005), excluding the area (being the southwest part of that constituency area) stretching from the southwest edge of Great Western Road to the boundaries of that constituency area ('the Operating Area') in buildings (including any structure or erection, arid any part of a building as so deined) of particular beauty or historical, architectural or constructional interest (2) To provide within the Operating Area in the interests of social welfare, facilities for recreation and other leisure time occupation for the benefit of the general public (3) To advance education through promotion of the arts, particularly among . residents of the Operating Area (4) To relieve poverty, primarily among residents of the Operating Area (5) To provide and/or promote training, particularly in such skills as will assist the participants in obtaining paid employment (6) To relieve unemployment, particularly among residents of the Operating Area, in such ways as may be thought fit, including assistance to fmd employment (7) To promote and protect the wellbeing and physical health of the residents of the Operating Area, and to assist in the relief of ill health and the provision of health education for such residents (8) To help young people, particularly those resident in the Operating Area, to develop their physical, mental and spiritual capacities, such that they may grow to full maturity as individuals and as members of society 9) To relieve the needs of people (and particularly those resident in the Operating Area) who suffer from mental and/or physical disability, illness or impairment or have particular needs by reason of old age or current or past drug, solvent and/or alcohol abuse, and their carers and families 10) To promote, establish, operate and/or support any other charitable projects or initiatives for the benefit of the community within the Operating Area. | £317,492
<strong>CHILDREN'S DOMESTIC ABUSE SUPPORT SERVICE (CIO)</strong> [Charity number: [1196321](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1196321)]<br>Counselling to children and young people | 
<strong>Shetland Women’s Aid (SCIO)</strong> [Charity number: [SC015199](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC015199)]<br>4.1 to advance. and continue to work towards ending domestic abuse and other Gender Based Violence in our community. 4.2 to advance. and protect women, children and young people's rights. 4.3 to promote. and protect the views of women, children and young people who have experienced domestic abuse and other Gender Based Violence. 4.4 to relieve the negative impact domestic abuse and other Gender Based Violence has on women, children and young people's lives. | £593,194
