# Sexual abuse `SW204`

Sexual abuse is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Abuse subcategory.

314 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.15% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(sexual(ly)? (abused?|exploitat(ion|ed)|violence|rape|assault(ed)?))\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 52 | 0.07%
£10k - £100k | 47 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 37 | 0.17%
£250k - £500k | 30 | 0.28%
£500k - £1m | 66 | 0.99%
£1m - £10m | 59 | 0.66%
Over £10m | 5 | 0.23%
Total | 296 | 0.15%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 250 | 0.15%
oscr | 51 | 0.21%
ccni | 13 | 0.18%
Total | 314 | 0.15%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>BARNARDO'S</strong> [Charity number: [216250](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-216250)]<br>Barnardo?s helped improve the lives of more than 240,000 vulnerable children, young people and their families. We help children including those who have been sexually exploited, young people leaving care, children with a parent in prison and provide early intervention for families struggling to cope. We find adoptive homes and foster placements for children in care and campaign to change policy. | £326,134,178
<strong>Barnardo's</strong> [Charity number: [SC037605](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037605)]<br>The Objects of the Charity are for the public benefit: To promote the care, safety and upbringing of children and young people by:- supporting and assisting those in need, their families and carers. promoting their health. and advancing their education. The relief of those in need by reason of age, ill-health, disability, financial hardship or other disadvantage. | £326,134,000
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £27,813,994
<strong>INSTITUTE OF INTEGRATED SYSTEMIC THERAPY</strong> [Charity number: [286909](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-286909)]<br>Childhood First (previously called the Peper Harow Foundation) provides integrated programmes of care, education and treatment to children and young people who are suffering the consequences of neglect and emotional, physical and sexual abuse.  Activities are centered on five residential communities with attached schools and a placement and family support programme. | £10,875,233
<strong>BLACK COUNTRY WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1032298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032298)]<br>Provision of support,and emergency services to vulnerable women and children experiencing rape, sexual assault and domestic abuse. Services include provision of emergency accommodation, floating support services, community  support and counselling. Services also include development with agencies to raise awareness of domestic abuse and develop support systems to enable them to access SWA services. | £10,016,725
<strong>Rape Crisis Scotland</strong> [Charity number: [SC025642](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC025642)]<br>5 The company’s objects are:  5.1   to relieve those in need. and 5.2	to advance education, through (but not limited to):  (a)	the provision of support to (i) individuals who have been raped or in any way sexually assaulted or abused, including advocating on their behalf, and (ii) local rape crisis services across Scotland, enabling collaboration between such organisations in order that they may work more effectively together. and  (b)	the provision of advice, information and training regarding the nature and extent of sexual violence, with the aim of broadening understanding about its prevention and developing appropriate responses.  | £8,670,573
<strong>ADVANCE ADVOCACY AND NON-VIOLENCE COMMUNITY EDUCATION</strong> [Charity number: [1086873](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086873)]<br>Providing advocacy and support in the community for women and children experiencing domestic abuse and sexual violence, and women who are involved in the criminal justice system and offending. | £8,232,444
<strong>ASHIANA SHEFFIELD</strong> [Charity number: [1120401](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1120401)]<br>Ashiana has over thirty years' experience of working with Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic & Refugee (BAMER) adults, children & young people fleeing domestic & sexual abuse, forced marriage, human trafficking, gang violence & 'honour'-based violence. Ashiana offers safe accommodation & floating support to women & children, support & services for trafficked men & women in the UK on an outreach basis. | £5,461,158
<strong>SUNDERLAND COUNSELLING SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1159057](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1159057)]<br>SCS provides counselling and psychological therapy services in and around the City of Sunderland and the North of England to relieve suffering and distress, due to bereavement, loss or other life issues. We provide counselling and talking therapy services for adults, young people and children, and specialist services for survivors of rape and sexual abuse and people with life limiting illnesses. | £5,424,050
<strong>FIRST LIGHT SOUTH WEST LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1090457](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1090457)]<br>First Light provide specialist  support to victims of sexual violence and domestic abuse including advice and support through the criminal justice process, therapeutic support, crisis intervention and Sexual Assault Referral Centre services. | £5,318,566


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>NEW PATHWAYS FAMILY FRIENDLY THERAPEUTIC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE</strong> [Charity number: [1126120](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1126120)]<br>TO (1) RELIEVE THE TRAUMA (WHETHER PSYCHOLOGICAL, EMOTIONAL OR PHYSICAL) OF PERSONS/ THEIR FAMILIES WHO HAVE BEEN VICTIMS OF (a) RAPE, OTHER SEXUAL ASSAULT OR ABUSE; or (b) PHYSICAL ASSAULT OR PSYCHOLOGICAL/EMOTIONAL ABUSE OF ANY KIND; AND (2) PROMOTE/ PARTICIPATE IN TRAINING, EDUCATION AND RESEARCH IN RELATION TO COUNSELLING AND THE TRAUMAS SET OUT ABOVE AND THEIR EFFECT UPON WOMEN/MEN/CHILDREN. | £4,116,135
<strong>Aspirations Day Program</strong> [Charity number: [1195424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1195424)]<br>Aspirations Day  Program offers   women only service supporting women with multiple disadvantages and complex needs, including addiction, homelessness &amp; have experienced violence &amp; sexual violence women caught up in prostitution or living with mental health &amp; leaving prison. We also offer a abstinence  based 12 week recovery program for men &amp; women recovering from all forms of addiction. | £225,879
<strong>Fermanagh Women's Aid</strong> [Charity number: [NI106084](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106084)]<br>Fermanagh Women's Aid provides a safe and supported environment for women and children in the community who experience domestic and sexual abuse. We provide one-to-one emotional and practical support to women (aged 18+) in our Floating Support Team and children and young people (aged 4-18) in our Children's and Young People's Services. We provide Emergency Accommodation to women and their children who need to leave their home in emergency situations. We provide educational programmes to children, Helping Hands and Heading for Healthy Relationships. We offer women personal development and educational programmes, My Life My Choices and Journey to Freedom. | £624,248
<strong>FOUNDATION FOR WOMEN'S HEALTH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT</strong> [Charity number: [292403](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-292403)]<br>FORWARD is an African women-led organisation working to end violence against women and girls. From female genital mutilation and child marriage to domestic and sexual violence, we tackle abuse and discrimination, enabling African women and girls to have the dignity, health and equality they deserve. We provide training, advice, support, research and advocacy to shape policies and programmes. | £703,082
<strong>WOMEN STEPPING OUT</strong> [Charity number: [1205138](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1205138)]<br>We offer all women, a safe listening and learning space in which to share their thoughts for the relief of physical and mental distress.  We offer emotional and practical support to women who are experiencing physical, mental or sexual abuse, in particular but not exclusively by providing a supportive interfaith and multicultural listening space for the public benefit of all women | £2,821
<strong>EDSHIFT</strong> [Charity number: [1215840](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1215840)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO, TO BE CARRIED OUT FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT IN WEST YORKSHIRE, ARE:1) THE PRESERVATION AND PROTECTION OF GOOD PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH AND WELLBEING AMONG CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE AGED 4 – 21 WHO HAVE BEEN EXPOSED TO, OR ARE AT RISK OF BEING EXPOSED TO, DOMESTIC ABUSE AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE, THROUGH THE PROVISION OF TRAUMA-INFORMED, STRUCTURED ARTS-BASED PSYCHOTHERAPY AND OTHER THERAPEUTIC INTERVENTIONS.2) TO ADVANCE IN LIFE, RELIEVE THE NEEDS OF AND HELP CHILDREN AND YOUNG PEOPLE AGED 4 – 21 WHO HAVE EXPERIENCED, OR ARE AT RISK OF EXPERIENCING, DOMESTIC ABUSE AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE, BY PROVIDING ADVICE, MENTORING, SUPPORT, ASSISTANCE AND ORGANISING PROGRAMMES OF ARTS, EDUCATIONAL AND OTHER ACTIVITIES AS A MEANS OF:A) ADVANCING IN LIFE AND HELPING THEM BY DEVELOPING THEIR SKILLS, CAPACITIES AND CAPABILITIES TO ENABLE THEM TO PARTICIPATE IN SOCIETY AS INDEPENDENT, MATURE AND RESPONSIBLE INDIVIDUALS;B) ADVANCING EDUCATION;C) PROVIDING RECREATIONAL AND LEISURE TIME ACTIVITY IN THE INTERESTS OF SOCIAL WELFARE WITH A VIEW TO IMPROVING THEIR CONDITIONS OF LIFE.3) TO ADVANCE PUBLIC EDUCATION IN CHILDHOOD ABUSE, CHILDHOOD TRAUMA, DOMESTIC ABUSE AND SEXUAL VIOLENCE THROUGH THE PROVISION OF COMMUNITY-BASED EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMMES DESIGNED TO RAISE AWARENESS OF HEALTHY RELATIONSHIPS, CONSENT, AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE, AND TO BREAK CYCLES OF ABUSE AND VIOLENCE IN SOCIETY.4) THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY BY THE PROVISION OF FOOD AND ESSENTIAL TOILETRIES TO FAMILIES IN FINANCIAL NEED. | 
<strong>The STAR Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC010678](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC010678)]<br>The organisation’s purposes are:  4.1 To provide free and confidential counselling, support and other therapeutic interventions to female survivors of sexual violence aged 13 and onwards caused by such experiences and promote improved emotional health.  Encourage them to make better life choices and provide skills to help them determine and implement their chosen course of action.  4.2 To advance and encourage research into the prevention of sexual violence, hence relieve the suffering caused by sexual violence. Also to keep accurate data to highlight the prevalence of sexual violence and promote a change in attitudes.  4.3 To educate and raise awareness of the issues of sexual violence amongst the public, police, courts and other authorities with a view to enabling survivors to come forward and seek help dealing with these issues and encouraging them to report these crimes without fear of being judged.   4.4 To encourage survivors of sexual violence to determine their own actions and take control of their own lives after considering options available to them.  4.5 The promotion of equality and diversity by upholding and promoting the rights of women and children regardless of ethnicity, religion or cultural background who have experienced sexual violence in the belief that violence against women is symptomatic of wider structural inequalities in society and thus mainly perpetrated by men.  | £321,382
<strong>Rainbow House Grangemouth Spiritualist Church</strong> [Charity number: [SC046643](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046643)]<br>4.1 To relieve the mental and physical distress of people who have experienced child sexual abuse or any other abuse.  4.2 To emotionally support people who have suffered abuse with a strong focus on providing services for those who currently have few or limited services. 4.3 To raise awareness of abuse, and the nature and extent of it, and how to prevent it.  4.4 To encourage research into the causes and effects of abuse, how to prevent it and relieve the suffering caused by it.  4.5 To raise money for the purposes of the organisation and accept legacies and donations | £93,250
<strong>Western Isles Rape Crisis Centre</strong> [Charity number: [SC037062](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC037062)]<br>To promote the welfare and relieve the distress of women and girls who have experienced rape and/or any form of sexual abuse or exploitation at any time in their lives.  In furtherance thereof, but not otherwise, WIRCC shall seek:  (a) To provide a free and confidential service for such women and girls.  (b) To offer practical support and information, and ongoing emotional support.  (c) To train women as support workers.  (d) To promote education and research on the subject of rape/sexual violence, and its effects on women and girls whether physical, psychological, legal or medical.  (e) To train women as support workers able to meet the needs of women and girls who have been raped/experienced other forms of sexual violence, by provision of medical, legal and emotional counselling.  (f) To publish educative and informative material on rape/sexual violence, including incest/childhood sexual abuse.  (g) To set up a coordinated group of contacts to further the aims of the WIRCC, and to obtain help and support where needed through close contact with local government, health services and voluntary organisations. | £255,789
<strong>SAY Women</strong> [Charity number: [SC016526](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016526)]<br>2.	In furtherance of its objects the Company will take reasonable steps to carry out the following activities:- (a)	To provide a flexible range of services to young women who have been sexually abused and are/or at risk of homelessness. (b)	To provide safe, secure and supportive medium term stay accommodation for young women who have been sexually abused and are aged between 16 and 25 at time of access. (c)	To provide the information, counselling and support to help the young women to help themselves to recover, accept and enhance such young women’s life’s circumstances. (d)	To act in an advocacy capacity representing the interests of sexually abused young women and liaise with all appropriate statutory and voluntary organisations. (e)	To investigate the needs of such young women and develop services either by the Company itself or in partnership with others. (f)	To campaign to make the real extent of men’s violence against women and girls and sexual abuse widely recognised and for suitable services to be provided. (g)	To encourage statutory authorities and other agencies to recognise their objectives, legal and otherwise, towards men’s violence against women and girls and sexually abused young women and to act accordingly towards the prevention of abuse and relief of suffering.  (h)	To assist the work of voluntary organisations and statutory organisations engaged in the provision and improvements of any service which would be beneficial to the objects of the Company. | £765,173
