# Refuge or shelter `SW203`

Refuge or shelter is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Abuse subcategory.

290 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.14% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(women'?s aid|refuge)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 49 | 0.06%
£10k - £100k | 50 | 0.07%
£100k - £250k | 28 | 0.13%
£250k - £500k | 34 | 0.35%
£500k - £1m | 49 | 0.80%
£1m - £10m | 55 | 0.65%
Over £10m | 2 | 0.10%
Total | 267 | 0.14%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 205 | 0.12%
oscr | 60 | 0.24%
ccni | 25 | 0.35%
Total | 290 | 0.14%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>REFUGE</strong> [Charity number: [277424](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-277424)]<br>Refuge provides specialist support to women and children escaping domestic violence, modern slavery, human trafficking, forced prostitution, rape, forced marriage and 'honour' based violence.  Services include: 24-hr national helpline, women's refuges, outreach and floating support, independent domestic and sexual violence advocates. We raise awareness and influence policy and legislative change. | £25,388,031
<strong>SOLACE WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1082450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1082450)]<br>THE PROMOTION OF THE PHYSICAL, EMOTIONAL AND PSYCHOLOGICAL WELL-BEING AND SAFETY OF VICTIMS OF DOMESTIC, SEXUAL AND ASSOCIATED ABUSE, IN PARTICULAR WOMEN, YOUNG PEOPLE AND CHILDREN. | £15,155,682
<strong>BLACK COUNTRY WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1032298](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1032298)]<br>Provision of support,and emergency services to vulnerable women and children experiencing rape, sexual assault and domestic abuse. Services include provision of emergency accommodation, floating support services, community  support and counselling. Services also include development with agencies to raise awareness of domestic abuse and develop support systems to enable them to access SWA services. | £8,600,515
<strong>BIRMINGHAM AND SOLIHULL WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1073926](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1073926)]<br>BSWAID is working with women and children affected by domestic violence by:offering safe temporary accommodation, appropriate and accessible support services includingsupporting women in accessing justice system. The charity raises awareness and promotes action against Domestic violence and promotes policy and best practice that responds to women and children's needs. | £7,982,109
<strong>SOUTHERN DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICE</strong> [Charity number: [1146773](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1146773)]<br>Southern Domestic Abuse Service  provides inclusive services services to women, children, young people & men affected by domestic abuse. Services include: Refuge accommodation, Community based outreach services, IDVA Services, Women only group work, Specialist work with children/young people, FGM Community Work/Development, work with perpetrators, domestic abuse preventative work and training. | £7,963,938
<strong>SAFENET DOMESTIC ABUSE AND SUPPORT SERVICES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1091544](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1091544)]<br>Provision of housing related support (refuge support) and support in the community for women and their children escaping domestic abuse. Outreach support and help line for domestic abuse victims living in the community.IDVA service to support domestic abuse victims in legal and court processes.Early Support service for children living in the community and at risk of domestic violence. | £7,546,000
<strong>INDEPENDENT DOMESTIC ABUSE SERVICES</strong> [Charity number: [1102337](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1102337)]<br>Provides refuge accommodation, advice, advocacy, and practical support for women and their children experiencing domestic abuse. | £5,836,915
<strong>WOMEN'S AID FEDERATION OF ENGLAND</strong> [Charity number: [1054154](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1054154)]<br>Women's Aid is the national charity for women and children working to end domestic abuse.  We are a federation of nearly 180 organisations providing just under 300 local lifesaving services to women and children across the country. Women's Aid also runs online support services, as well as providing expert training, qualifications and consultancy to a range of agencies and professionals. | £5,397,522
<strong>CYFANNOL WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [1045890](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1045890)]<br>CWA provides support to women (& their children) affected by all forms of VAWDASV. Refuge accommodation, complex needs, 24/7 Crisis, drop in, Community Support, ISVA, counselling, CYP support, group education/training opportunities. | £4,443,454
<strong>DOMESTIC ABUSE SAFETY UNIT NORTH WALES LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1111610](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1111610)]<br>To provide information, support and, if necessary, refuge accommodation to people who have, or, who are, suffering domestic abuse. | £3,964,452


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE FOX HOSPITAL</strong> [Charity number: [1206417](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1206417)]<br>THE OBJECT OF THE CIO IS:FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT, TO RELIEVE THE SUFFERING OF SICK, INJURED AND/OR DISABLED RED FOXES IN NEED OFURGENT CARE AND ATTENTION THROUGHOUT ENGLAND & WALES, BY ARRANGING AND PROVIDING MEDICAL TREATMENT, REHABILITATION, RESCUE, RECOVERY AND REFUGE, USING RCVS REGISTERED AND ACCREDITED VETERINARY PRACTICES AND SURGEONS AND SUBSEQUENT RELEASE BACK TO THE WILD ONCE AT FULL HEALTH, OR TRANSFER TO AN ANIMAL SANCTUARY ON A CASE BY CASE BASIS. | 
<strong>Northern Ireland Women's Aid Federation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [NI106451](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106451)]<br>We offer education, training and support to organisations and individuals working with victims of domestic and sexual violence. We also work directly with victims and we work in partnership with other agencies to promote, develop and deliver education on violence against women and girls, including trafficking and exploitation, FGM, honour based violence and domestic and sexual violence. We also raise awareness about domestic and sexual violence as a gender issue and work with partners locally, nationally and internationally to raise awareness of this issue. Our activities support those affected, we promote the provision of safe temporary accommodation for women and their children, young people and vulnerable adult dependents who are, or have been, experiencing domestic, sexual or gender based violence or abuse. We also work to advance women’s and children’s human rights and gender equality and raise awareness about the violation, impairment or nullification of enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We also work with government and partnership organisations to develop support services for all victims of domestic and sexual violence. | £934,617
<strong>HUSKY SALVATION</strong> [Charity number: [NI107878](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-107878)]<br>we investigate all complaints, requests and queries from members of the public as well as local authorities and act accordingly. we provide a safe, 24/7 attended refuge for unwanted, neglected, stray, abused and/or vulnerable animals as well as those whose owners can no longer care for due to a change in personal circumstances, for as long as necessary until they find a suitable home for life, potential homes are fully vetted and follow ups and support is provided for the life of the animal in their new home. We provide full medical and other professional care needed and have a no kill policy. We also advocate, provide and promote education regarding animal welfare and other animal related issues and provide volunteering opportunities for the general public and help build better relations in our community. | £4,290
<strong>Clydebank Women's Aid</strong> [Charity number: [SC011636](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC011636)]<br>The object of the Association shall be:- (a) To provide temporary refuge for women who have suffered mental and physical harassment, and their children, on request. (b) To encourage these women to determine their own future and to help them achieve it, whether it involves returning home or starting a new life elsewhere. (c) To recognise and care for the emotional and educational needs of the children involved.  (d) To offer support, advice and help to any woman who asks for it, whether or not she is a resident, and also to offer support and after-care to any women and children who have left the refuge. both in the refuge and in the community through the Advice Clinic. (e) To encourage research into the causes of any ways of preventing or relieving the suffering caused by such harassment and to keep such statistics and basic records as will facilitate research to the long term benefit of all battered women. (f) To educate and inform the public, the media, the police, the courts, the social services and other authorities, with respect to the battering of women and enlist the support of professional workers to help such women with all aspects of their problem. (g) To identify, research and campaign around the housing needs of battered/ homeless women and their dependents. | £294,454
<strong>NORTH LINCOLNSHIRE WOMEN'S AID</strong> [Charity number: [506501](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-506501)]<br>To assist the relief of women (and their children) who have suffered or who are at risk of suffering domest violence .  To advance the education of the public in the issues surrounding domestic violence. | £911
<strong>Belfast & Lisburn Women's Aid</strong> [Charity number: [NI106099](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106099)]<br>Belfast & Lisburn Women's Aid provides safety and support services to women and children who experience and/or at risk of domestic violence regardless or age, marital status, economic status, class, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, class, faith and political beliefs. 3 refuges provide 24 hour access to safe accommodation at the point of risk, crisis and need, staff carry our risk and needs assessments, safety and support planning, counselling, and a range of group work programmes from mums and their children. The outreach service works in the same way and supports women and children to stay safely in their homes and community. Refuge and outreach staff also work with children and young people to ensure their safety and support needs are met and to address the trauma and upset experienced as a result of violence and abuse. There are specialised services for older women aged 16-25 years. Working in partnership with other agencies is integral to our work and BLWA play a key role in a number of partnerships including the Belfast and South Eastern Health Trusts' Domestic and Sexual Violence Partnerships. Staff are also located in a PSNI station, the Belfast Public Protection Unit and with Social Services in the Belfast and South Eastern Health Trusts. This co-located work ensures safety, reduces repeat incidents and assaults, and generally improve their outcomes for sage and independent living. We provide comprehensive domestic and sexual violence training and awareness sessions to agencies across the public, statutory community, and voluntary sectors to enable more effective response to women and children seeking help. We are advocates for women and children experiencing, or at risk of domestic violence and bring their voices to help inform and influence government policies and strategies. | £3,844,034
<strong>WOMEN'S AID IN LUTON</strong> [Charity number: [1160555](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160555)]<br>Provides support, information and temporary accommodation for women with or without children suffering domestic abuse. | £767,532
<strong>The Cithrah Foundation</strong> [Charity number: [NI103438](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103438)]<br>We provide facilities for temporary secure accomodation and services to support the women and women with children on an emergency short-term basis in the refuge SELAH Offering support, advice and information and counselling where required both within the Safe house SELAH,Drop in centre at 29 West Street and on an outreach basis to individuals and families. We are working to develop a safe place for males to match that of SELAH with government . Cithrah works to empower Service users and staff and volunteers, through; organised workshops, educational courses and skills training. We Give presentations and atttend events to raise awareness of the impact Abuse, Homelessness and social deprivation can impose on the individual and family without predjudice in the community. Co-operate and partner with voluntary or statutory agencies and inhabitants of the area of benefit and beyond so as to advance the objectives of the Cithrâh Foundation services, its service users, and the community. Network with relevant agencies develop good working relationships in parnership with local voluntary and staturory agencies. develop goals for meeting the needs of client base and staff/volunteers. | £249,053
<strong>Angus Women's Aid Collective Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC013604](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC013604)]<br>The Company's objects are:- (a) To provide a temporary refuge or refuges for women and their children (if any) where the women have suffered abuse (mental, physical or sexual) in their home or within a relationship with a man.  (b) To offer support, advice and help to any women and their children (if any) who ask for such help whether or not they are refuge residents and also to offer support and aftercare to any women and children who have a temporary refuge.  (c) To promote equal opportunities for, and participation of, women in society to enable them to determine their own futures.  (d) To provide the opportunities for educational and emotional needs ofthe children (if any) to be met, particularly those resident in refuges.  (e) To encourage statutory authorities and other agencies to recognise their obligations, legal and otherwise, towards abused women and their children (if any) with respect to the abuse of women and its prevention.  (f) To promote education and to inform the community and their representatives including the media. the police, the judicial system, the social services and other authorities with respect to the abuse of women and its prevention.  (g) To encourage research into the causes, prevention and relief of suffering and abuse of women. | £625,562
<strong>ROCK OF REFUGE TRIUMPHANT MINISTRIES</strong> [Charity number: [1147026](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147026)]<br>HOLDING REGULAR WORSHIP SERVICES IN THE COMMUNITY TO PROMOTE THE MESSAGE OF THE CHRISTIAN FAITH. | £5,717
