# Child abuse `SW201`

Child abuse is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Abuse subcategory.

106 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.05% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(child(hood|ren)?( sexual)? (abuser?s?|labo(u)?r|slavery|traficking|trauma|neglect)|(abuse(d)?|neglect|traficking) (against|of|towards)? children|abuse in childhood|abused as children|incest|pa?edophil(ia|es?)?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 29 | 0.04%
£10k - £100k | 21 | 0.03%
£100k - £250k | 15 | 0.07%
£250k - £500k | 9 | 0.09%
£500k - £1m | 14 | 0.23%
£1m - £10m | 7 | 0.08%
Over £10m | 1 | 0.05%
Total | 96 | 0.05%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 84 | 0.05%
oscr | 21 | 0.08%
ccni | 1 | 0.01%
Total | 106 | 0.05%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>Royal Scottish Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children</strong> [Charity number: [SC016092](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC016092)]<br>The prevention of harm to children, and particularly: [1] To prevent abuse and neglect of children and [2] To assist the recovery of children from abuse and neglect. In furtherance of the following objects the Corporation shall work (i) To build the strengths of children who are vunerable (ii) To enhance the lives of such children by supporting parents (iii) To champion the rights and interests of such children (iv) To do all such other lawful things as are considered expedient for or consistent with the attainment of the objects of the Corporation. | £14,230,000
<strong>INTERNET WATCH FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1112398](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1112398)]<br>Foster trust and confidence in the Internet.Assist Internet service providers to combat online child abuse content.Assist law enforcement in the fight against online child abuse content | £6,011,992
<strong>THE LUCY FAITHFULL FOUNDATION</strong> [Charity number: [1013025](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1013025)]<br>LFF provides a unique set of services which enhance community protection against child sexual abuse. Our preventative work includes awareness raising and education.  Our specialist staff assess risk, advise on case management and provide evidence based intervention programmes. LFF is the only UK-wide child protection charity dedicated solely to reducing the risk of children being sexually abused. | £4,472,771
<strong>CDS UK (CLINIC FOR DISSOCIATIVE STUDIES)</strong> [Charity number: [1178552](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178552)]<br>The objects of the CIO CDS UK  are, for the public benefit:1. The advancement of mental health particularly to persons affected by dissociative disorders; and2. The advancement of education in complex mental health, specifically relating to dissociative disorders, childhood abuse and complex trauma. This will be particularly via lectures, seminars, research studies and training events. | £2,018,986
<strong>CENTRE FOR ACTION ON RAPE AND ABUSE</strong> [Charity number: [1124282](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1124282)]<br>CARA (Centre for Action on Rape and Abuse) works with victims and survivors of sexual violence and child sexual abuse, providing independent, specialist support and promoting and representing their rights and needs.CARA works with adults, young people (aged 13-19) and children aged 12 and under from across mid and north Essex. | £1,477,358
<strong>AXIS COUNSELLING</strong> [Charity number: [1074830](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1074830)]<br>Therapeutic counselling of adult survivors of childhood sexual abuse (CSA).Also the counselling of:- Partners and relatives of survivors of CSA- People who have suffered sexual attack or traumaTherapeutic and relationship counsellingProvision of information and trainingThe offering of indepentent advice and support to victims of rape and sexual violence | £1,415,110
<strong>ONE TO ONE CHILDREN'S FUND</strong> [Charity number: [1086159](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1086159)]<br>The Charity's objectives are to carry out activities that relieve the suffering, hardship and neglect of children and young persons anywhere in the world. One to One Children's Fund is a small charity, and to make a virtue of necessity, we always start small. We change some precious lives immediately, but the bigger prize is that we create a model that we and others can follow. | £1,178,609
<strong>Sexual Trauma and Recovery Services - Dorset Rape Crisis</strong> [Charity number: [1178308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178308)]<br>Providing Support, Guidance & Information to any survivors of Rape, Child Sexual Abuse and Sexual Assault through a Helpline, Counselling & Independent Sexual Advisor Services (ISVA), including services for Children, Young People & Adults in Dorset. On becoming a CIO in 2019 we changed our name from Dorset Rape Crisis Support Centre (900350): 2018 marked our 30th year of working in this field. | £1,148,540
<strong>The National Association for People Abused in Childhood</strong> [Charity number: [SC049296](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC049296)]<br>The objects of NAPAC ('Objects') are: a) to provide relief and support to people who have experienced abuse in childhood and to those affected by abuse and to advance the education of the public and the relevant professions with regard to child abuse (including the emotional and psychological consequences resulting from any form of abuse or neglect in childhood). and b) to provide support, training , information and resources to any organisation supporting people who have experienced abuse in childhood including counsellors, facilitators and other carers and related professions, and to the legal, medical and other professions requiring such support, training , information or resources when providing professional services in relation to people who have experienced abuse in childhood. | £978,315
<strong>NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR PEOPLE ABUSED IN CHILDHOOD</strong> [Charity number: [1069802](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069802)]<br>Maintenance and expansion of a national telephone support line for adult survivors of childhood abuse.Providing support, training and information to individuals and organisations supporting those who have similarly suffered.Raising public awareness of the continuing impact of childhood abuse in adulthood.Advocating to alleviate the impact of child abuse in adulthood. | £978,315


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>WEAPONS OF REVIVAL CHURCH (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1125911](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1125911)]<br>As a charity we mainly work with young people in the community that is supporting those that are in drugs, gangs, child abuse and social related issues to every one in the community. Our highly trained spiritual care team do this by providing spiritual teachings using the word of God. Our approach comes into count by holding crusades, and evangelical visitation in community. | £7,754
<strong>NSUKKA CULTURAL ASSOCIATION, GLASGOW</strong> [Charity number: [SC052702](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC052702)]<br>2.1 To promote equality and diversity by cultural integration and increased participation of individuals of Nsukka descent in Scottish society and. by facilitating discussions around socio-cultural issues that are peculiar to the Nsukka community in Glasgow. Through advocacy and campaigning, we shall promote activities that address racial discrimination in employment, education, health, housing, and public services.  2.2 To promote the advancement of citizenship and community development through the development and teaching of civic values. the encouragement of voluntary activity and increasing the involvement of individuals of Nsukka origin in community activity within the wider Scottish society.  2.3 To promote and foster the welfare and well-being of all individuals of Nsukka descent resident in Glasgow and the environs. The association shall in particular promote the relief of those in need by reason of age, ill health, disability, financial hardship, or another disadvantage 2.4 To promote the advancement of education by facilitating activities that will advance capacity development, skills empowerment, training, and research opportunities for its members and the wider community. 2.5 To promote the advancement of the arts, heritage, and culture by organising cultural dance lessons and competitions and. Igbo language classes 2.6 To advance in human rights, and conflict resolution by creating awareness of Scottish laws and culture particularly as they relate to child abuse, neglect, domestic violence, and good parenting among the people of Nsukka descent living in Glasgow and the environs | 
<strong>INNER CHILD POTENTIAL</strong> [Charity number: [1186031](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1186031)]<br>Offer counselling and psychotherapy to adult survivors or child abuse and trauma. Education and training courses are available for those working with child abuse and trauma | £925
<strong>SURVIVE (SUPPORT FOR SURVIVORS OF RAPE AND SEXUAL ABUSE)</strong> [Charity number: [1069129](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1069129)]<br>We provide support and information to adult survivors of rape, sexual assault and childhood sexual abuse in York and North Yorkshire. | £472,719
<strong>OUR SANSAR LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1132124](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132124)]<br>Our Sansar is a UK-based non-governmental organisation working to provide education, welfare and shelter to the most disadvantaged children in Nepal for whom little or no help is forthcoming. At the moment we are focusing on programmes in Province 2: 1)Street Children Programme; 2) Children's Protection Centre for girls affected by violence; 3) End to Child Labour; 4) Education Programme | £314,957
<strong>TEACH ME PLEASE</strong> [Charity number: [1182407](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1182407)]<br>TEACH ME PLEASE is committed to offering education to the turned away children living in Pakistan almost every corner of the country. Our aim is to provide them with modern education and enable them to manage their own lives. Through this project, we would be able to save the children from child labour, which is equivalent to modern day slavery. | £12,021
<strong>AMA CARES</strong> [Charity number: [1192918](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1192918)]<br>We undertake community based activities which bring together parents, guardians, children and our consultants to educate them on issues pertaining child sexual abuse and offer techniques and guidelines on how to stop and or prevent such abuses. Professionals that support our activities include police, doctors, mental health personnel, social workers and self defence experts. | 
<strong>One Step Borders SCIO</strong> [Charity number: [SC051374](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC051374)]<br>We will carry out 1-1 and group based emotional and mental health support, advocate for young people whilst reducing stigma in the community, activities will be restricted to those aged 16-25 years. We will aim to reduce the impacts of childhood trauma through therapeutic interventions and community-based activities  | £57,045
<strong>Sexual Trauma and Recovery Services - Dorset Rape Crisis</strong> [Charity number: [1178308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1178308)]<br>Providing Support, Guidance & Information to any survivors of Rape, Child Sexual Abuse and Sexual Assault through a Helpline, Counselling & Independent Sexual Advisor Services (ISVA), including services for Children, Young People & Adults in Dorset. On becoming a CIO in 2019 we changed our name from Dorset Rape Crisis Support Centre (900350): 2018 marked our 30th year of working in this field. | £1,148,540
<strong>Safe Space Ltd</strong> [Charity number: [SC008695](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC008695)]<br>The company's objects are: (a) To provide support for survivors of childhood sexual abuse through counselling, advice and assistance to such persons and their families. (b) To advance knowledge and understanding of the effects of sexual abuse through education and awareness programmes. (c) To address issues of isolation for survivors through promotion and encouragement of group work for both survivors and non-abusing significant others. (d) To provide training for those who support survivors either within the company or through other professional or relational structures. | £217,906
