# Food banks `SW301`

Food banks is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Food subcategory.

1,486 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 0.73% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(food ?(bank|hub)s?|emergency food|food parcels?|food distribution)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 219 | 0.31%
£10k - £100k | 565 | 0.80%
£100k - £250k | 306 | 1.36%
£250k - £500k | 143 | 1.29%
£500k - £1m | 77 | 1.11%
£1m - £10m | 40 | 0.44%
Over £10m | 3 | 0.13%
Total | 1,353 | 0.70%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 1,328 | 0.77%
oscr | 99 | 0.40%
ccni | 59 | 0.84%
Total | 1,486 | 0.73%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>THE TRUSSELL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1110522](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110522)]<br>The Trussell Trust supports a nationwide network of food banks and together we provide emergency food and support to people locked in poverty, and campaign for change to end the need for food banks in the UK. www.trusselltrust.org | £62,813,000
<strong>THE LINK COMMUNITY HUB</strong> [Charity number: [1199450](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1199450)]<br>The Link Community Hub helps and supports people who are disadvantaged due to poverty, deprivation, and circumstances. We offer support in education, activities and advice for those to the local and wider. We run support groups, youth groups, drop- ins, advice sessions, food bank and out reach work to care and support those in need. | £23,107,100
<strong>TWENTY-FIFTH AVENUE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1123817](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1123817)]<br>Twenty-Fifth Avenue provides supported accommodation for people at risk of homelessness. We offer temporary shared housing, tailored support, advice and guidance, and pathways into training, employment, and inclusion into the mainstream for the homeless. We also run a food provision programme, including our Woolwich/Birmingham Breakfast Club (food bank), operating 2 to 3 times a week. | £8,989,156
<strong>The Wheatley Foundation Limited</strong> [Charity number: [SC046607](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC046607)]<br>The Company's objects are as follows: 5.1 To relieve those who are in need by reason of financial hardship, ill health, disability or other disadvantage (whether as a consequence of changes in welfare provision or otherwise. and including, without limitation,those who may be at risk of homelessness) by providing them with financial assistance and/or referring them for support (with the Company reimbursing the relevant organisation/agency, where the directors consider that appropriate, in respect of all or part of the cost of such support) to organisations and/or agencies external to the Group, including (where appropriate) those who provide money advice, debt advice, advice on welfare rights, social work support, food banks/food parcels or assistance with meeting energy costs. 5.2 To relieve unemployment by providing financial assistance to individuals who are in a state of poverty to enable them to access educational, training and/or work experience opportunities which will increase their prospects for obtaining paid employment. 5.3 To prevent and/or relieve poverty, advance education, advance the arts, advance health, advance citizenship and community development, advance public participation in sport, advance environmental protection or improvement and/or relieve those who are in need by reason of financial hardship, ill health, disability or other disadvantage, by developing, supporting (whether financially and/or through assisting with funding applications and/or by other means), co-ordinating and/or delivering a range of programmes and initiatives directed towards one or more of those aims. in each case, to the extent that this would (a) promote or improve the economic, social or environmental well-being of those occupying the houses provided or managed by organisations within the Group (either alone, or along with other people) or (ii) promote or improve the economic, social or environmental well-being of the areas in which houses provided by organisatio | £8,514,000
<strong>COMMUNITY ADVICE AND LAW SERVICE LTD</strong> [Charity number: [1087214](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1087214)]<br>Community Advice and Law Service, trading as Leicester Community Advice and Law Centre, provides an independent specialist legal advice service in social welfare law including debt, housing, welfare benefits and immigration. We also provide financial capability support through the Moneywise Living project, energy advice and generalist advice at Foodbanks. | £4,171,978
<strong>THE PAROCHIAL CHURCH COUNCIL OF THE ECCLESIASTICAL PARISH OF HACKNEY</strong> [Charity number: [1158545](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1158545)]<br>Sunday and midweek worship as part of the Church of England. Mission and outreach activities include a weekly Foodbank in association with Hackney Food Bank, a winter night shelter and Credit Union. Other activities include outreach to youth and children, and pastoral care for people within the parish. | £3,566,746
<strong>Ulster Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (USPCA)</strong> [Charity number: [NI102755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102755)]<br>The Ulster Society Prevention Cruelty to Animals (USPCA) is the second oldest Animal Welfare Charity in the world founded in 1836. USPCA is supported entirely by voluntary donations. The USPCA’s business model changed dramatically on the 1st April 2012 as a result of the implementation of the new Welfare of Animals Act (NI) which placed a statutory responsibility on Local Authorities to improve welfare standards and afford better protection from neglect, abuse and exploitation for companion animals and livestock. In response the USPCA has moved away from traditional animal recovery and sheltering practices to the provision of an Animal Hospital for the ‘Relief of Suffering’ and associated charitable services. The Hospital treats many injured animals that would otherwise remain untreated and in distress. It also ensures that essential veterinary care is available for companion animals where the pet owners’ financial circumstances are an obstacle to their animal’s wellbeing. Outreach from the Animal Hospital, to provide these services to those in need across Northern Ireland, is achieved through a voucher scheme for local Vets. In partnership with the Trussell Trust and other organisations, who operate food banks across Northern Ireland, the USPCA provides food parcels for the many companion animals belonging to individuals and families in need, thereby supporting the animals’ welfare and ensuring their continued companionship for the owners. The USPCA also investigates and exposes animal cruelty such as organised dog fighting, badger baiting, carted deer hunts or cock fighting. Through its education programmes for schools and community associations the USPCA promotes responsible pet care and instils an appreciation for our native wildlife. | £3,314,663
<strong>CHILDREN IN CROSSFIRE</strong> [Charity number: [NI101412](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-101412)]<br>Our programmes in Tanzania and Ethiopia focus on giving children the best start in life through early childhood development and meeting wider needs. Successes have included: Tanzania: 8,946 children in 86 pre-primary classes received improved quality of early years’ education 1,500 children experienced quality education in 15 pre-schools 99 government teachers were trained in early childhood education The quality of teaching in pre-primary classes improved from 21% to 60% Media coverage of issues affecting young children across all 26 regions of Tanzania Helped revitalise the ECD sector through leading the establishment of a National ECD Task Team to guide policy development and implementation for 8.7m Tanzanian children under 7 years Ethiopia: Emergency food relief provided to 120 vulnerable families in Addis Ababa 50 people successfully employed in income generating activities that will sustain their families 240 health extension workers provided nutritional support to a population of 1.1 million people Provided access to safe water to 3,000 people in Wolisso 366 severely malnourished children were given lifesaving therapeutic feeding Our international is supported by an education programme in Ireland: Up to 15,000 people directly impacted through a public awareness programme Over 42,180 students engaged through the training of 179 teachers and 319 Initial Teacher Education (ITE) students | £2,900,036
<strong>DENS LIMITED</strong> [Charity number: [1097185](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1097185)]<br>DENS is on the frontline, tackling homelessness and poverty in Dacorum, by giving people the chance to build a better future. DENS provides a number of services: The Elms Hostel, short term accommodation; DENS Day Centre, advice and a daytime haven; DENS Rent Aid, a guarantee and support scheme with private landlords; DENS Dacorum Foodbank, emergency food. | £2,610,219


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE ARK COMMUNITY CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1132161](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1132161)]<br>The Ark conducts weekly church services, prayer meetings, training and youth work. The church supports Christian evangelistic and humanitarian initiatives amongst the homeless and disadvantaged in the UK and abroad. The Ark also runs a Foodbank supporting families referred to us by local schools, and gives grants to those suffering hardship. | £114,622
<strong>TREMORFA COMMUNITY PANTRY</strong> [Charity number: [1204760](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1204760)]<br>THE OBJECTS OF THE CIO ARE:(1) TO PREVENT AND RELIEVE POVERTY FOR PERSONS, INCLUDING THOSE THAT ARE IN TEMPORARY FINANCIAL HARDSHIP, IN SUCH WAYS AS THE TRUSTEES FROM TIME-TO-TIME THINK FIT, IN PARTICULAR, BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY BY:(A) RUNNING A FOOD BANK AND PANTRY’, PROVIDING FOOD, ESSENTIAL TOILETRIES, AND HOUSEHOLD ITEMS TO INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES IN NEED AND/OR FOR DISTRIBUTION BY CHARITIES OR OTHER ORGANISATIONS WORKING TO PREVENT OR RELIEVE POVERTY.(B) SUCH OTHER MEANS INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE PROVISION OF SUPPORT OR SIGNPOSTING TO RELEVANT INFORMATION AND OTHER ADVISORY SERVICES. | £83,471
<strong>INTERNATIONAL MEDICAL HEALTH ORGANISATION UK</strong> [Charity number: [1211442](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1211442)]<br>1. THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY OR FINANCIAL HARDSHIP IN THE UK, SRI LANKA AND INDIA, PRIMARILY BY ASSISTING IN THE PROVISION OF FOOD, FOOD BANKS, CLEAN WATER, EDUCATION, TRAINING, HEALTH CARE PROJECTS AND ALL THE NECESSARY SUPPORT DESIGNED TO ENABLE INDIVIDUALS TO GENERATE A SUSTAINABLE INCOME AND BE SELF-SUFFICIENT.2. FOR THE PUBLIC BENEFIT TO PROMOTE AND PROTECT THE PHYSICAL AND MENTAL HEALTH OF THOSE IN SRI LANKA AND INDIA PRIMARILY BY MAKING GRANTS TO SUPPORT TREATMENTS AND DIAGNOSIS, HEALTHCARE PROJECTS, HEALTHCARE EDUCATION, PREVENTION PROGRAMMES AND/ OR ENHANCE FACILITIES AND TRAINING TO IMPROVE HEALTHCARE. | 
<strong>REACH COMMUNITY PROJECTS</strong> [Charity number: [1169108](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1169108)]<br>REACH assists clients in financial crisis, focusing on solutions for debt and hardship through a relational handholding approach. Food parcels deliver immediate crisis relief. Long-term interventions include debt advice, benefits assistance, housing aid, essential items. Our prevention work involves post intervention 1-2-1 wellbeing guidance, money management classes in schools, advocacy & policy. | £629,649
<strong>CROSSPOINT (WESTBURY)</strong> [Charity number: [1149257](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1149257)]<br>Crosspoint (Westbury) operates in the geographical area of Westbury, Wiltshire.  A Welcome Centre offers information, a listening ear, signposting to other agencies, an outlet for the local Foodbank, internet and telephone access. Crosspoint funds and provides a counselling service. | £36,966
<strong>TEN LITTLE TOES BABY BANK</strong> [Charity number: [1184233](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1184233)]<br>Operating like a foodbank, giving out bundles of essential items to people who need them in our community. We support people who are pregnant or looking after children. We provide free (mostly pre-loved) baby and child equipment and supplies, including clothing, nappies, prams, car seats, cots and bedding and safety equipment such as highchairs and stair gates. | £205,565
<strong>KENTISH TOWN COMMUNITY CENTRE</strong> [Charity number: [1104278](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1104278)]<br>Kentish Town Community Centre promotes the benefit of the people living in, working in, receiving education in or visiting Kentish Town. We run a Youth Service and provide many activities for older people. We have an onsite foodbank 'The Pantry' and provide advice services. We also offer rooms for hire. | £201,015
<strong>Ulster Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (USPCA)</strong> [Charity number: [NI102755](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-102755)]<br>The Ulster Society Prevention Cruelty to Animals (USPCA) is the second oldest Animal Welfare Charity in the world founded in 1836. USPCA is supported entirely by voluntary donations. The USPCA’s business model changed dramatically on the 1st April 2012 as a result of the implementation of the new Welfare of Animals Act (NI) which placed a statutory responsibility on Local Authorities to improve welfare standards and afford better protection from neglect, abuse and exploitation for companion animals and livestock. In response the USPCA has moved away from traditional animal recovery and sheltering practices to the provision of an Animal Hospital for the ‘Relief of Suffering’ and associated charitable services. The Hospital treats many injured animals that would otherwise remain untreated and in distress. It also ensures that essential veterinary care is available for companion animals where the pet owners’ financial circumstances are an obstacle to their animal’s wellbeing. Outreach from the Animal Hospital, to provide these services to those in need across Northern Ireland, is achieved through a voucher scheme for local Vets. In partnership with the Trussell Trust and other organisations, who operate food banks across Northern Ireland, the USPCA provides food parcels for the many companion animals belonging to individuals and families in need, thereby supporting the animals’ welfare and ensuring their continued companionship for the owners. The USPCA also investigates and exposes animal cruelty such as organised dog fighting, badger baiting, carted deer hunts or cock fighting. Through its education programmes for schools and community associations the USPCA promotes responsible pet care and instils an appreciation for our native wildlife. | £3,314,663
<strong>NEWARK FOODBANK</strong> [Charity number: [1160698](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1160698)]<br>Provision of Emergency Food Relief | £80,934
<strong>The North Star Trust</strong> [Charity number: [SC054916](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC054916)]<br>4 The organisation’s purposes are:  a. Community Engagement and Development: To foster the improvement of local communities by raising funds and strategically donating to initiatives that promote deep community engagement and sustainable development. This includes, but is not limited to, supporting the formation of community support groups, provision of recreational facilities, building of community spaces that will support local community development and providing equipment and kits for community sports teams. b. Poverty Relief: To prevent or relieve poverty amongst individuals and families in need by raising funds and providing grants to organisations and initiatives that directly address the causes and consequences of poverty. This includes, but is not limited to, supporting access to food banks, provision of essential goods, assistance with housing costs, and initiatives promoting financial inclusion and employability. c. Mental Wellbeing: To promote and protect good mental health and wellbeing amongst individuals within local communities by raising funds for and supporting organisations that provide mental health support services, educational programs, and campaigns to raise awareness and reduce stigma. This may include supporting access to counselling, therapy, peer support groups, and initiatives promoting positive mental health and resilience. d. Suicide Awareness and Prevention: To raise public awareness about suicide, its causes, and its impact within local communities by raising funds for and supporting organisations that deliver suicide prevention initiatives, provide support to those affected by suicide, and promote early intervention strategies. This may include funding awareness campaigns, training programs for identifying and supporting individuals at risk, and bereavement support services. | 
