# Food `SW300`

Food is a tag in the [UK-CAT classification](../tag_list.md) of charities in the 
UK. It is part of the [Social welfare](SW.md) categoryand the Food subcategory.

6,460 charities have been tagged with this tag.
This represents 3.18% of all charities.

## Keywords to find charities

UK-CAT categories are applied to charities based on a set of keywords, in the form of a [regular expression](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Regular_expression).

The regular expression used to find charities in this tag is:

`\b(food|meals?|dinners?|lunch(es)?|breakfasts?)\b`



## Distribution by size of charity

Income band | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
Under £10k | 1,750 | 2.45%
£10k - £100k | 2,313 | 3.29%
£100k - £250k | 921 | 4.11%
£250k - £500k | 445 | 4.03%
£500k - £1m | 241 | 3.48%
£1m - £10m | 203 | 2.22%
Over £10m | 37 | 1.65%
Total | 5,910 | 3.05%


## Distribution by charity regulator

Regulator | Charities with tag | Percent of all charities
------------|-------------------:|-------------------------:
ccew | 5,594 | 3.26%
oscr | 510 | 2.05%
ccni | 356 | 5.10%
Total | 6,460 | 3.18%


## Ten largest charities (by income)

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>THE SALVATION ARMY</strong> [Charity number: [214779](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-214779)]<br>A Christian Movement committed to putting belief into action: taking a holistic approach, engaging with physical, emotional and spiritual needs, offering services without discrimination.In addition to Christian Worship, in buildings and the open air, services include drop in centres, lunch clubs, parent and toddler groups, debt advice, youth clubs, after school clubs & emergency food parcels. | £338,297,000
<strong>SRUC</strong> [Charity number: [SC003712](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC003712)]<br>The objects for which the Institution is established are, for the benefit of the public in Scotland and elsewhere, to advance education, science and environmental protection and improvement and in furtherance of these purposes the Institution will:- 4.1.1      equip, carry on, maintain and develop a college or school or schools having as its, or their, main objects the provision of tertiary education and in particular the teaching and study of, advice on and research into the Natural Economy and so improving knowledge, training and skill levels and encouraging entrepreneurial activity, and to provide appropriate business support, in Natural Economy-related opportunities across rural Scotland. 4.1.2    expand research and education capacity in relation to the Natural Economy, developing stronger partnership working between all stakeholders including public bodies. 4.1.3    support and encourage rural communities endowed with significant Natural Economy assets to develop sustainability and inclusivity based on those assets. and 4.1.4    encourage people and communities across Scotland to grasp the opportunities of the Natural Economy to deliver a green recovery based on high quality natural capital assets.  4.2      In this clause, as elsewhere in these articles, the expression “Natural Economy” and cognate words, where the context permits, means ecosystem services being  agriculture, fishing and aquaculture, food and drink, energy (including renewables), forestry, logging, and manufacture of wood and tourism and generally any and all associated sciences, technologies, crafts and skills, and all matters of whatever nature related to the use of land and water resources, health (including animal health and veterinary services), all aspects of economics and socio-economics, leisure, leisure activities and industries, wildlife habitats, conservation, climate change, natural capital, biodiversity and game management, the rural way of life and environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. | £84,723,000
<strong>Christian Aid</strong> [Charity number: [SC039150](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039150)]<br>The furtherance of charitable purposes which relieve and combat poverty, malnutrition, hunger, disease, sickness or distress throughout the world. The furtherance of charitable purposes which advance or assist such other charitable work as may be carried on by or with the support of the Sponsoring Churches and in this clause and throughout the Articles, 'charitable' means charitable in accordance with the law of England and Wales provided that it will not include any purpose which is not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. | £71,100,000
<strong>HARPER ADAMS UNIVERSITY</strong> [Charity number: [1147717](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147717)]<br>Harper Adams University delivers higher education in support of the agricultural, agricultural engineering, food science and technology, environmental science, veterinary science and land-based sectors. | £59,723,000
<strong>The James Hutton Institute</strong> [Charity number: [SC041796](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC041796)]<br>to conduct and promote research in biological, social, economic and environmental sciences so as to deliver science, knowledge, innovation and services that contribute to advances in agriculture and other land uses. resource and environmental management. social, economic and environmental sustainability. food, energy and water security. education. and health and well-being in Scotland and internationally. | £59,423,000
<strong>THE TRUSSELL TRUST</strong> [Charity number: [1110522](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1110522)]<br>The Trussell Trust supports a nationwide network of food banks and together we provide emergency food and support to people locked in poverty, and campaign for change to end the need for food banks in the UK. www.trusselltrust.org | £54,052,000
<strong>Mary's Meals International Organisation</strong> [Charity number: [SC045223](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC045223)]<br>(a) To provide a daily meal, in a place of education, for children in the world's poorest communities. (b) To provide relief for those suffering, in any part of the world, as a result of humanitarian, crises or poverty, to help people escape poverty and to provide care for orphaned, abandoned and vulnerable children and to work for the prevention thereof. (c) To raise awareness worldwide of poverty issues through education and. (d) To assist and support the work of other organisations, financially or otherwise, in particular members of the Mary's Meals network throughout the world, the objects of which would be considered to be Charitable Purposes and similar in nature to these objects.  | £49,459,000
<strong>CONCERN WORLDWIDE (UK)</strong> [Charity number: [1092236](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1092236)]<br>Concern Worldwide (UK) is an international humanitarian organisation specialising in tackling hunger in the world's poorest countries. Our mission is to help people living in extreme poverty achieve major improvements in their lives. Working in partnership we help them bring about long-lasting change and realise their basic human rights; to food, health, education and ultimately a life of dignity. | £36,482,378
<strong>WORLD ANIMAL PROTECTION</strong> [Charity number: [1081849](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1081849)]<br>We move the world to protect animals. We work globally with local partners, animal welfare organisations and businesses, and we influence decision makers internationally, nationally and locally. We have formal relationships with key international bodies including the Food and Agriculture Organization, the UN Environment Programme, the Council of Europe and the World Organisation for Animal Health. | £30,869,000
<strong>Phoenix House</strong> [Charity number: [SC039008](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC039008)]<br>4 The charity's objects (Objects) are specifically restricted to the following: 4.1the treatment and care of those suffering from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and alcohol. 4.,3 the rehabilitation of those relieved from dependence upon or addiction to or misuse of drugs and or alcohol. 4.4 the advancement of education of persons working or concerned in the field of drugs and or alcohol dependence or abuse. 4.5 the treatment, care and recovery of persons suffering from psychological or physical infirmity or an addictive lifestyle, including but not limited to persons who have addictions or mental health problems relating to gambling, smoking, drugs, alcohol or food or who by adverse circumstances or ill health are in need of help, counselling, or guidance in acquiring a settled way of life so that they may develop full maturity as responsible individuals and members of society.  4.6 the care, resettlement and provision of support and advice to offenders, ex-offenders and those who might offend so that they can be rehabilitated, live independently, develop positive personal relationships and contribute to their families and communities. and 4.7 to relieve the needs of persons, including but not limited to families and communities, arising out of their relationship with persons having the issues set out in the preceding objects, including the provision of and continued development of services and advice related to social housing, other housing, community engagement, education, employment, family and care support. 4.8 Nothing in the articles shall authorise an application of the property of the charity for purposes which are not charitable in accordance with section 7 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005.  | £30,442,000


## Ten random charities

Name | Latest income
-----|--------:
<strong>ERDINGTON FOODBANK</strong> [Charity number: [1161641](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1161641)]<br>Food bank | £274,395
<strong>BME Cardiff Peace Place</strong> [Charity number: [1142719](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1142719)]<br>We do provide sport, education, employment training, interpreting, translating to black ethnic minority refugee living in Hackney. We run a drop-in center where these  people can come to assess services and take part in cultural and social activities like dancing, old people's group, health sessions, food distributions. We offer free advice and information on energy, health matters, alcohol, drug. | £9,500
<strong>CURRY ON THE STREET</strong> [Charity number: [1197259](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1197259)]<br>Curry on the Street aims to relieve poverty, promote good nutrition and reduce social isolation amongst those in our community who are suffering social, economical or emotional distress by the provision of emergency food parcels  (referral process), warm clothing and by serving  nutritious curry and rice weekly  in the town centre of Nelson and inside premises in Burnley and Colne, Lancashire. | £59,685
<strong>THE HERSDEN NEIGHBOURHOOD CENTRE ASSOCIATION</strong> [Charity number: [801402](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-801402)]<br>Provision of facilities, services, and support to all members of the community of Hersden.To manage the Community Centre for the benefit of all members of the community in Hersden.Services provided include  Holiday Playschemes, Senior Citizens Lunch Club, Art Group and Coffee Mornings. We host various statutory and grant funded agencies. | £57,110
<strong>CHURCH FOR ALL NATIONS INTERNATIONAL</strong> [Charity number: [1164737](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1164737)]<br>Empowering communities, Helping the needy, Church activities, Preaching and Teaching, Counselling, Prayer support, Comforting the bereaved, Running Food Banks | £122,706
<strong>LIBANUS EVANGELICAL CHURCH</strong> [Charity number: [1147260](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1147260)]<br>2 worship services each Sunday plus meetings for all ages during the week: Mums and Tots and children's groups, youth club, ladies' meetings, lunch club and visits to residential homes, besides allowing community groups to use our premises.Our Schools Worker takes assemblies and classes in local schools and they visit the church. We also have an annual Men's Dinner . | £122,265
<strong>Independent Weimaraner Rescue & Re - Homing Service ( K/A Weimaraner Rescue)</strong> [Charity number: [SC024308](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-SC-SC024308)]<br>The Service's objects ('the Objects') is to relieve the SUffering and distress of Weimaraner dogs by:- (1) Finding new and approved homes for them, and the provision of temporary shelter and food for them. (2) providing medical treatment for the dogs and undertaking the liability for the costs thereof in circumstances where there is no other reasonable likelihood of medical treatment being provided. (3) Restoring any lost dogs to their rightful owners. | £4,738
<strong>Creating Help In Local Districts</strong> [Charity number: [NI106988](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-106988)]<br>Over the last year we have already set up, by way of financial support from Belfast Child CIC, a fully functional gym and training academy in Belfast City Centre. This key location has already become a centrally shared hub by many groups and organisations across Belfast. At our College Street facility we run daily health and well-being classes, confidence and esteem building classes, provide valuable work experience for unemployed young people and accredited courses to help on the road to employment. We currently run classes and provide work experience for young people from Youth Action, The Now Group, Belfast Metropolitan College, Start 360, and The Simon Community, which sees an average of 150 young people through our doors each week. All our volunteer coaches are fully qualified, fully insured, trained in Keeping Children Safe, Access NI checked, First Aiders, trained in the use of a Defibrillator, Fire Warden Training And Health & Safety At Work. During the summer of 2017 we also ran a life savers programme to enable young people involved in the programme to gain similar qualifications with additional training in Food Hygiene, Money Management, Goal Setting And Life Maps. This is one of our programmes which we are looking to grow in 2018. All of our gym equipment is being provided and funded by Belfast Child CIC whose sole purpose was to set up such a facility for young people. | £43,144
<strong>Down and Connor Diocesan Trust</strong> [Charity number: [NI103983](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-NIC-103983)]<br>The work of priests is teaching the faith, celebration of services and the pastoral care of all people the priest comes in contact with. The parishes reach out to the wider community, provide comfort, assistance and material help to the suffering and this is demonstrated by the role of the parish priest, parish committees, the family ministry and a number of organisations which the charity operates on a daily basis. The charity manages: Our Lady’s Home which provides 24 hour nursing care to the frail, elderly and mentally infirm as well as day care facilities and with 86 beds: Glenmona Resource Centre provides specialist residential care for children aged 10 to 17 years referred by Health and Social Services Trust under a voluntary arrangement or a care order. All the children have suffered or at risk of suffering significant harm and require specialist help to support and promote their development. Collections of money, food, clothes for the homeless in the UK and overseas, assisting disabled adults and children in their daily lives, visiting the sick and elderly in their homes and in hospital, visiting prisoners and asylum seekers, counselling the bereaved and those with relationship difficulties, visiting schools all form part of the daily works of the charity and the benefits deriving from those works is the building up of social capital, contributing to the common good of the wider community, strengthening relationships of other denominations and promoting ecumenical and cross-community links which are important for the continued realisation of peace in Northern Ireland. Missionaries quite frequently return from overseas to advise parishioners of the works they have been able to undertake as a consequence of fundraising in particular parishes. The charity contributed over £850K to Trocaire which is an all-Ireland charity which supports people in the developing world to improve their lives, meet their basic needs and ensure their human dignity | £20,986,000
<strong>THE HERTFORD PANTRY</strong> [Charity number: [1208168](https://findthatcharity.uk/orgid/GB-CHC-1208168)]<br>THE PREVENTION OR RELIEF OF POVERTY, IN PARTICULAR (BUT NOT EXCLUSIVELY) BY:(A) PROVIDING FIT FOR PURPOSE FOOD PRODUCTS AND OTHER GOOD FROM INDUSTRY DONATIONS AND PARTNERS DIRECTLY TO ECONOMICALLY DISADVANTAGED INDIVIDUALS AND FAMILIES WITHIN THE COMMUNITIES OF HERTFORDSHIRE AND ESSEX, AND TO ORGANISATIONS WORKING WITH THEM; AND(B) UNDERTAKING ACTIVITIES WHICH RAISE AWARENESS OF AND/OR SEEK TO REDUCE POVERTY, IN PARTICULAR BY PROMOTING AND SUPPORTING THE REDUCTION OF FOOD WASTE AND COLLECTING AND REDISTRIBUTING SURPLUS FOOD.  | £87,082
